EDPS 52400 - Effective Instruction For Students With Significant Reading Difficulties

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will explore significant reading difficulties, such as dyslexia, and essential components of effective reading instruction. This course will investigate scientifically-based reading research (SBRR), evidence-based and developmentally appropriate reading instruction and interventions to support students with exceptionalities.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the foundations of language acquisition and literacy development, including cognitive, linguistic, cultural, social, and motivational factors that affect language acquisition and literacy development; and major components of reading development, including phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and text comprehension.
2.  Explore the history, origins, and underlying causes of significant reading difficulties, including dyslexia.
3.  Synthesize principles of scientifically based reading research (SBRR) and evidence-based reading instruction and intervention, such as applying data-based decision making, setting individual student learning goals, and using instruction grounded in SBRR.
4.  Explain key concepts of phonemic awareness: the critical role of phonemic awareness in learning to read an alphabetic language; the distinction between phonological awareness (i.e., the awareness that oral language is composed of smaller units, such as spoken words and syllables) and phonemic awareness (i.e., a specific type of phonological awareness involving the ability to distinguish the separate phonemes in spoken words); and knowledge of the continuum of phonological- and phonemic-awareness skills development.
5.  Summarize key concepts of phonics in developing accurate decoding and automaticity in word recognition; the importance of sequencing phonics instruction according to the increasing complexity of linguistic units; the reciprocity between decoding and encoding; and the continuum of phonics skills.
6.  Create SBRR-based, evidence-based, and developmentally appropriate assessment, instruction, intervention, or extension lesson plan, and ongoing progress monitoring in phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary and academic language, comprehension and analysis of informational, persuasive, and literary texts, including response to literature.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Special Education


