FNR 43300 - Grand Challenges In Forest Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will guide students through readings, discussions, and presentations of the grand challenges that face the field of forest management. These topics will vary with each iteration of the class, but may include topics such as climate change, invasive species, pressure on forest lands from a growing population, altered disturbance regimes, development of new silvicultural techniques, economic pressure at multiple scales, and shifting public perceptions on the management of forests. Students will examine and discuss these challenges from the vantage points of multiple stakeholders to gain insight into their complexity and importance. Students will read and discuss on average 2-4 research or review articles, book chapters, or other sources per week. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and discuss major challenges facing the field of forest management.
2.  Describe how these challenges interact and develop an understanding of how these interactions may result in amplified effects on forests.
3.  Understand how these challenges may be viewed from a variety of perspectives by different stakeholders.
4.  Identify how forest management may be used to mitigate some of the effects of these challenges.
5.  Organize and present an oral and written case study of a forest management scenario that is linked to multiple challenges discussed in class.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  FNR 33100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FNR 35500 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  FNR 37500 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


