BCHM 32200 - Analytical Biochemistry II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Modern biochemical techniques for the purification and characterization of biological proteins. This is a project-oriented course where students begin by purifying a recombinant enzyme by affinity chromatography and then characterize various biochemical properties of the enzyme throughout the semester. Emphasis will be placed on quantitative analyses, including measurements of enzyme activity and inhibition, molecular interactions, and oligomeric state. Students will learn basic principles of designing assays to measure biochemical phenomena. Use of bioinformatics and computational modeling tools for protein structure analysis will be integrated. The course will culminate with preparation of a manuscript-style report describing the enzyme characterization.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Biochemistry 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the molecular principles of life based on the core disciplines of biology, chemistry and physics. 
2.  Skilled laboratory scientists performing a wide variety of biochemical and molecular techniques. 
3.  Understand the scientific method. Understand the concepts and importance of hypotheses, experimental design to test hypotheses, and data analysis in the creation of new knowledge. 
4.  Acquire information literacy: the ability to locate, evaluate, and utilize information in the disciplines of biochemistry and molecular biology that is required for research, data analysis, and communication. 
5.  Communicate scientific knowledge, experiments and conclusions effectively as writers.
6.  Understand the contributions of our discipline to society, including improvements to medicine, agriculture, the economy and the environment.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BCHM 22100 Minimum Grade of C-


