ASEC 38000 - Feature Writing And Production

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Students gain hands-on studio experiences in all phases of features writing, storytelling, and production. Students will analyze audiences, generate story ideas, research, interview, write, edit, shoot photos, plan social media, design pages, and can shoot short-form video.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop audience-appropriate story ideas consistent with Destination Purdue's mission. This requires critical thinking (will a topic actually interest readers and our client) and communication skills (students must articulate to the instructor and others why their stories will work).
2.  Distinguish the differences between feature and news stories. This requires knowledge (what are the technical differences between these two seminal communication styles).
3.  Write compelling, newsworthy feature stories. This requires critical thinking (what parts of conversations with sources will appeal to our readers).
4.  Produce and prepare publication-quality photos. This requires knowledge (how to shoot and prepare an effective photo).
5.  Demonstrate basic skills in desktop publishing software, design, and layout. This requires knowledge (of basic design principles and publishing software).
6.  Develop and demonstrate reporting skills that accurately reflect the diversity of the Purdue Agriculture community. This requires ethics (students must ensure that their work is diverse and inclusive) and critical thinking (students must be aware of when their work does not reflect the diversity of the population they serve).
7.  Demonstrate professionalism and professional "improvisation". This requires ethics (students must learn how to operate as professionals) and critical thinking (students must be able to solve unexpected problems that arise during the process).



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  COM 25200 Minimum Grade of D-


