HTM 37200 - Global Tourism Geography

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introduction and analysis of specific world travel destinations, including the exploration of geographic features, customs and tradition, population centers, visitor attractions, political, religious, language and other cultural differences as these relate to the hospitality and travel industry.  The course is designed to teach students specific geographic knowledge, and develop a deeper understanding and empathy for cultural values and traditions that exist outside their own culture.  Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, GTC-Social-Behavioral, UC-Behavior/Social Science, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and explain the interactions of tourism with the culture, economy, and environment of global destinations.
2.  Identify international travel patterns and explain their impact on tourism management in promoting cultural understanding and global peace.
3.  Locate various countries, major cities, natural wonders, historic sites and other tourism attractions, both man-made and natural.
4.  Describe how the physical environment in specific geographic regions affects the ability of humans to live there and influences inbound and outbound travel.
5.  Explain how political, economic, and environmental factors affect travel both positively and negatively.
6.  Explain international travel patterns and identify the major travel generating and travel receiving areas.
7.  Compare and contrast different cultures throughout the world with your home culture. Identify and explain key differences and their influence on travel.
8.  Identify and explain the key elements of interdependence required for the existence of modern day world travel.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


