MGMT 42910 - Experiential Marketing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  In this course, students learn to apply marketing concepts to real world marketing problems. Projects are varied and may involve marketing plan development for a start-up, market research, analysis of marketing data, digital marketing, search engine marketing, web design, and social entrepreneurship. Clients include Purdue Marketing Advisory Board members, entrepreneurs working with Purdue's Foundry and Discovery Park, Purdue Research Park start-ups, small and medium-size Indiana businesses, and non-profit organizations. Students are given flexibility in selecting projects of interest. Teams work under the direction of a faculty member. Teams meet regularly with the faculty supervisor and also the project sponsor to review project progress and discuss the next steps towards meeting project requirements.  Projects are done in teams, although evaluation is individual. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire experience in applying concepts learned in marketing and other classes to real world problems.
2.  Acquire practical knowledge in the stages of project management including problem formulation, selection of research approach to addressing a marketing problem, and collection of secondary and primary data.
3.  Learn to integrate the project analysis and information gathered into a consistent whole and make specific recommendations for decision-making in real world situations.
4.  Experience challenges of working in teams to achieve projects goals.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Economics-BS

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Accounting-Cert


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 42500 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 42110 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 42710 Minimum Grade of B-


