BMS 33100 - Pharmacology For Veterinary Technicians

Credit Hours: 1.50.  This course introduces the concepts of drugs used in the different body systems. Mechanisms of action, side effects, and therapeutic applications are presented.

    1.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary drugs used to treat diseases of the GI tract.
2.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary drugs used to treat diseases of cardiovascular system. 
3.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary drugs used to treat diseases of the respiratory tract.
4.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary drugs used to treat diseases of the endocrine systems.
5.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary anti-inflammatory drugs.
6.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary drugs used to treat diseases/conditions of the nervous system.
7.  Identify, describe the mechanisms of action, and describe the major side effects, contraindications or warnings for common veterinary anti-parasitic drugs.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VM 24900 Minimum Grade of D-


