PSY 20100 - Introduction To Statistics In Psychology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introduction to the development and application of statistical, quantitative, and measurement techniques pertinent to the psychological sciences. Fundamental concepts of numerical assignment, sampling theory, distribution functions, experimental design, inferential procedures, and statistical control.  Should be taken at Purdue University, West Lafayette. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Psychological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand basics of descriptive statistics and how to calculate them.
2.  Understand foundational logic underlying inferential statistics (probability, sampling distributions, and the logic of hypothesis testing).
3.  Understand statistical techniques used to evaluate competing hypotheses as used in psychology and other social sciences, and the circumstances under which they should be used.
4.  Understand how to interpret results from SPSS, a software package that is commonly used in the field of psychology for statistical analysis.
5.  Understand how to apply statistical reasoning and how to properly collect, describe, and interpret data.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Psychology Undecided

      Psychology Sci-BS

      Psychology-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  PSY 12000 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  MA 15300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MATH 15300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 15400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MATH 15400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 15900 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 15800 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of D-)


