BME 56100 - Preclinical And Clinical Study Design

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Medical devices are developed, manufactured, and distributed in a highly regulated environment. This course concerns the preclinical and clinical study design processes for obtaining FDA marketing approval for biomedical devices. Prior to marketing a medical device in the US, specific governmental approval is required dependent on the type of device and the risk associated. This course is part of a three-course series dealing with various aspect of regulatory science. Regulatory science considers the scientific and technical foundations that support the practical testing and regulations that ensure the safety and effectiveness of medical devices. This course covers the responsible conduct of clinical and pre-clinical research, including evaluation of device tissue interactions and how they may be studied with pre-clinical animal models to predict safety and performance in human clinical trials that are necessary to gain regulatory approval for marketing. In the section on ethics we will cover several topics related to responsible conduct of clinical and pre-clinical research, including informed consent, risk assessment and ethical decisions, IRB oversight and ethical study design.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand and apply the various considerations and perspectives in designing and implementing a preclinical and clinical study strategy that will successfully lead to the marketing approval by a regulatory authority (e.g. FDA).
2.  Follow a structured, iterative decision-making process for moral reasoning to reach a supported-conclusion regarding ethical dilemmas in engineering design and testing.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


