ECON 32500 - Economics Of Sports

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This class applies economic principles to the professional sports entertainment industry and its derivative input markets. The class begins by examining the microeconomics of demand for (by fans) and supply of (by teams) sports entertainment. The labor markets for the primary input, athletic talent, receive significant attention. Coordination among economic agents, taking the forms of leagues, players' unions, and government, is considered at the end of the class, with an emphasis on how they affect the efficiency of the markets related to sports entertainment. Quantitative empirical analysis is emphasized throughout the class. This is not a sports trivia or fantasy sports strategy class.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Solve models of how fans, teams, and players behave.
2.  Describe and evaluate the structures of the markets for sports outputs and inputs, e.g., players.
3.  Explain information presented in quantitative forms, e.g., equations, graphs, tables.
4.  Analyze the effects of leagues' or governmental polices on market efficiency.
5.  Communicate conclusions about sports output and input markets in numerical, graphical, tabular, and written forms.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Advanced Accountancy

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

      Social Studies Education


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2020 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1040 Minimum Grade of C-)


