EDPS 40200 - K-12 Reading Methods For Exceptional Learners

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to meet the exceptions of CEC, NCTQ, and REPA 3 and prepare students in the science of reading for exceptional learners (including students with dyslexia and those with intensive needs) in Tiers 2 and 3. This course will provide implementation details on Response to Intervention (RTI) and Multi-tiered Systems of Support (MTSS). The course will present strategies and programs used in strategic and intensive intervention efforts for those learners needing additional, unique, and/or more focused remediation efforts. Topics will include understanding reading intervention research, the behavior analytic and learning sciences' contributions to understanding the reading process, the sequence of learning to read (systematic instruction), reading to learn, and the five components of reading instruction for both K-3 and 4-12 learners. This course will specifically address the REPA 3 Standard: Focused work using ("interventions that are direct, explicit, and multi-sensory) as a component of scientifically-based reading. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Review the five components of effective reading instruction for those in K-3 and those in grades 4-12.
2.  Explain the models for remediation of prereadiing/reading difficulties and describe how they function: RTI, MTS.
3.  Describe and demonstrate how to use various screeners and progress monitoring assessments for k-12 students in Tiers 2 and 3.
4.  Describe the meaning of direct and systematic instruction.
5.  Demonstrate mastery of Corrective Reading sounds.
6.  Demonstrate methods of increasing student engagement.
7.  Discuss strategies to enhance content area reading performance.
8.  Illustrate a scope and sequence for reading remediation for readers needing strategic and intensive intervention.
9.  Explain how reading instruction can be made more explicit for those needing more focused efforts
10.  Demonstrate how to provide systematic and explicit small group/one on one reading instruction.
11.  Describe Big Direct Instruction and published scientifically-based programs that are designed based on the science of reading instruction and demonstrate how they are implemented.
12.  Describe the use of Universal Design for Learning and assistance technology approaches to increase access to reading materials and/or improve reading skills.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 33500 Minimum Grade of D-


