NUR 31701 - Health Alterations In Adults II

Credit Hours: 6.00.  One of two courses focusing on providing nursing care to adults with an emphasis on the application of the nursing process to assist diverse populations reach their optimal level of wellbeing as they experience health care across the delivery system continuum. 	Emphasis will be on promoting clinical reasoning skills, integrating best practices, and ensuring patient safety. The course concentrates on adults experiencing alterations in health related to oxygenation, circulatory dynamics, endocrine regulation, neurological regulation, immune regulation and musculoskeletal dynamics that typically result in hospitalization.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Integrate theory and evidence from the sciences and humanities to inform practice and influence clinical decision making when caring for diverse populations of adults experiencing selected illnesses.
2.   Demonstrate appropriate use of the nursing process to assist diverse populations of adults to optimize wellness and compensate for self-care deficits.
3.   Integrate standards of practice, current clinical research findings, knowledge of genomics and age-related pathophysiology when providing care to adults experiencing health alterations.
4.   Collaborate with members of the health care team in the promotion of wellness and self-care in diverse populations of adults.
5.   Demonstrate personal and professional growth, and skill development when providing evidence-based, legal, ethical, compassionate, and culturally sensitive nursing care to adult clients.
6.   Communicate transition of care needs of adult clients to the client, client's family, and other members of the health care team
7.   Utilize principles of teaching and learning to educate adults across the continuum of care.
8.   Monitor client outcomes to evaluate the effectiveness of psychobiological interventions.
9.   Revise plans of care based on an ongoing evaluation of patient outcomes that emphasize client safety and evidence-based practice.
10. Use patient care technologies, information systems, and communication devices to access, retrieve, organize and communicate information in a professional manner.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 22100 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL 22000 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL N2510 Minimum Grade of C) and (Undergraduate level  PSY 35000 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  PSY B3800 Minimum Grade of C) and Undergraduate level  NUR 22001 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22101 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22201 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22301 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C [may be taken concurrently]


