PHRM 84500 - Integrated Pharmacotherapy III

Credit Hours: 6.00. This course will develop knowledge and skills regarding the physiology/ pathophysiology, medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics/pharmaceutics, and pharmacotherapy of specific cardiovascular diseases, neurology diseases, and psychiatric disorders. Typically offered Spring.

    6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain structure-function relationships of drugs used for the management of ischemic heart disease, heart failure, arrhythmias, Parkinson’s disease, dementia/Alzheimer’s disease, seizure disorders, MS, migraine, headache, psychotic disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety/sleep disorders, ADHD, pediatric psychiatric disorders, eating disorder, pain management, neuropathic pain, narcolepsy, and substance dependence. 
2.  Explain the pharmacology of drugs used for the management of ischemic heart disease, heart failure, arrhythmias, Parkinson’s disease, dementia/Alzheimer’s disease, seizure disorders, MS, migraine, headache, psychotic disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety/sleep disorders, ADHD, pediatric psychiatric disorders, eating disorder, pain management, neuropathic pain, narcolepsy, and substance dependence.
3.  Describe the pathophysiologic processes responsible for specific disease states and integrate this knowledge into the therapeutic decision making process.
4.  Evaluate various therapeutic alternatives for a given disease state in light of specific patient factors and design a patient-specific pharmacotherapeutic regimen. This will include assessing the effectiveness of therapy on the basis of clinical and laboratory parameters. 
5.  Describe adverse effects associated with drugs used for the management of ischemic heart disease, heart failure, arrhythmias, Parkinson’s disease, dementia/Alzheimer’s disease, seizure disorders, MS, migraine/headache, psychotic disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety/sleep disorders, ADHD, pediatric psychiatric disorders, eating disorder, pain management, neuropathic pain, narcolepsy, and substance dependence. 
6.  Design evidence-based drug therapy treatment plans for patients with ischemic heart disease, heart failure, arrhythmias, Parkinson’s disease, dementia/Alzheimer’s disease, seizure disorders, MS, migraine/headache, psychotic disorders, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety/sleep disorders, ADHD, pediatric psychiatric disorders, eating disorder, pain management, neuropathic pain, narcolepsy, and substance dependence.   



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 84400 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 83500 Minimum Grade of D-


