HTM 49200 - Advanced Foodservice Management

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Utilize managerial skills and techniques with planning, organizing, directing and controlling a full service restaurant operation. Management teams of two to three students develop, market, and operate a restaurant that is open to the public. Emphasis is placed on utilizing effective management skills to create a high quality, profitable operation with well planned systems and highly motivated, organized employees. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and apply the principles of idea generation and brainstorming in the development of a restaurant concept; demonstrate the ability to design a menu and marketing campaign responsive to the economic and aesthetic requirements of the concept.
2.  Demonstrate the ability to forecast production schedules and staffing needs; explain and demonstrate the ability to work cohesively in a team environment, and demonstrate an appropriate level of professional supervision of a restaurant concept.
3.  Apply principles of production flow and timing; demonstrate facility and equipment operation and maintenance and demonstrate competency in utilizing a POS system in the current restaurant concept.
4.  Apply principles of purchasing and selection of materials; product storage and rotation and service quality appropriate to the current restaurant concept.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to analyze and effectively decrease food costs and increase contribution margins to the current restaurant concept.
6.  Identify and apply principles of safety and sanitation (in accordance with Indiana law), and principles of quality food production and wine service to the current restaurant concept.
7.  Describe and apply an appropriate ethical standard of conduct in dealings with customers, staff, fellow students and instructors in all parts of the lab and classroom experience.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 21200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HTM 29100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HTM 29101 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HTM 34100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HTM 49111 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


