HSCI 49601 - School Of Health Sciences Senior Honors Project

Credit Hours: 1.00. This course is for Senior students in the School of Health Sciences Honors Program. In this course students will earn credit for work completed on their Honors Project under supervision of their faculty mentor. Students will enroll in this course in both fall and spring semesters (and concurrently with HSCI 49501 in the spring semester). An updated Project Description Form will be at the beginning of each semester based on the progress and any changes to the research plan. Course meeting times and frequency are to be set by the student and faculty mentor with an estimated commitment of 3-4 hours per week. Hours are to be arranged between the student and the faculty mentor, with at least weekly or biweekly meetings set aside for a one-on-one session between the student and faculty mentor. Students may also be matched to professional mentors off campus depending on their interests and future goals. The regular meeting times should be set during the first week of class. Working hours must not conflict with other course obligations or consume too much of students' study time. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Honors, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Gain an understanding of the current research areas in health sciences.
2.  Develop and design an honors research project specific to the student's research interests.
3.  Conduct and complete an individualized research project to gain further understanding of the student's specific research area of interest.   




