EDPS 34100 - Introduction To Philosophical Underpinnings And Concepts Of Applied Behavior Analysis

Credit Hours: This course is the first of four courses in the Applied Behavior Analysis pathway for undergraduates in teacher licensure programs and is also part of the course content required to become a Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst. (BCaBA). The course will provide an introduction into the primary concepts and principles of applied behavior analysis. Students will be introduced to the fundamental knowledge and experiences for understanding Applied Behavior Analysis principles, concepts, and techniques, including operant behavior, reinforcement, punishment, choice, antecedent stimulus control, and verbal behavior. Students learn concepts and principles to increase or decrease target behavior, to facilitate behavior maintenance and generalization, and to evaluate effectiveness of instruction. This course includes a field placement.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Define and provide examples of behavior, response, and response class.
2.  Define and provide examples of stimulus and stimulus class.
3.  Define and provide examples of respondent and operant conditioning.
4.  Define and provide examples of positive and negative reinforcement contingencies.
5.  Define and provide examples of schedules of reinforcement.
6.  Define and provide examples of positive and negative punishment contingencies.
7.  Define and provide examples of automatic and socially mediated contingencies.
8.  Define and provide examples of unconditioned, conditioned, and generalized reinforces and punishers.
9.  Define and provide examples of operant extinction.
10.  Define and provide examples of stimulus control.
11.  Define and provide examples of discrimination, generalization, and maintenance.
12.  Define and provide examples of motivating operations.
13.  Define and provide examples of rule-governed and contingency-shaped behavior.
14.  Define and provide examples of verbal operants.




