HDFS 40600 - Mathematics In Preschool And Primary Grades

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course focuses on teaching mathematics in preschool and primary grade classrooms. It covers the developmental foundations and curriculum applications of mathematics teaching and includes ways to plan, implement and evaluate developmentally appropriate mathematics instructions for children with and without disabilities and children who are learning English. Field-based experiences in preschool or primary grade classrooms are included. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe principles of developmentally appropriate early childhood education and intervention as they relate to teaching mathematics.
2.  Demonstrate an understanding of how children think about mathematical concepts.
3.  Identify key mathematics knowledge that children need to learn during the early childhood and primary years
4.  Critically and creatively plan, implement, and evaluate developmentally appropriate instruction in mathematics, including responding to the needs of diverse learners.
5.  Demonstrate an understanding of Indiana State Standards for Mathematics for children from birth-3rd grade (www.in.doe.gov/primetime/foundations.html and http://dc.doe.in.gov/Standards/AcademicStandards/index.shtml).
6.  Demonstrate the dispositions and skills of a developing early childhood teacher, as described in this syllabus and in the practicum evaluation. Note: A 3 hour/week field experience provides students the opportunity to apply knowledge to practice as reflected in objectives 4-6 above.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]) and Undergraduate level  HDFS 40500 Minimum Grade of B- and Undergraduate level  HDFS 40800 Minimum Grade of B-


