PHYS 59500 - Instructional Design In Physical Science

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00.  This course builds on collaborative interactions among current Purdue Physics or Education students, K-12 science educators,  Physics and Purdue College of Science faculty, and Physics Outreach.  The goal for this course is to provide opportunities and mentorship for independent work that could include the design, piloting, and assessment of instructional materials, relevant to learning and teaching topics and concepts related to the physical sciences.  With a service learning orientation, students enrolled in this course should expect to learn and build upon the fundamental principles related to the design and implementation of instructional materials in classroom or informal learning environments, and assessment of learning.  Materials developed could contribute to the repertoire of practicing teachers and/or Physics Outreach.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Physics and Astronomy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn to apply fundamental principles of instructional design and/or assessment of learning.
2.  Develop creative and engaging age-appropriate opportunities to promote the learning of scientific concepts.
3.  Critique and reflect upon personal insights and experiences related to non-traditional and informal science education.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Physics-ND

      PHYSICS-PHD

      Physics-MS

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


