EDPS 30102 - Social-Emotional Aspects Of Learning In Diverse Environments

Credit Hours: 3.00. The course examines the role of social emotional competence in learning and builds understandings of the inter-relationships between theory, empirical evidence, and instructional practice. It takes the perspective that experiences across different learning contexts are interrelated and may influence each other in reciprocal ways. The course views social-emotional dimensions of learning as: embedded in person-environment transactions; tied to specific instructional (formal and/or informal) contexts over time; co-evolving with cognition and language; critical to psychological, behavioral, and learning outcomes. The focus is on intersection of social-emotional competence, learning, and instruction. The course is intended to provide the foundations (theoretical and empirical) that can help those interested in formal and informal instructional environments make informed educational decisions by considering the social-emotional dimensions of learning. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students will develop familiarity with major theoretical perspectives that inform social and emotional development in learning contexts. 
2.  Students will be able to define and distinguish core theoretical principles and connect them to empirical evidence and instructional practices in formal and informal learning contexts. 
3.  Students will be able to think critically about and evaluate the characteristics of different learning environments (and the instructional practices within these environments) and their relationship to learner development. 
4.  Students will develop familiarity with research methods for studying and assessing social development in different contexts. 
5.  Students will be familiar with key dimensions of social-emotional competence. 
6.  Students will develop the ability to think critically about the dimensions of social-emotional competence and their links to learner development in different contexts. 
7.  Students will be familiar with the social processes that operate in key contexts. 




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 23500 Minimum Grade of D-


