MGMT 25400 - Legal Foundations Of Business I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An examination and study, for management students, of the nature and place of law in our society, both national and international, the social and moral bases of law enactment, regulation of business, legal liability, enforcement procedures, and the legal environment for managers. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the differences between criminal law and civil law.
2.  Compare and contrast positive law and equity.
3.  Recognize the differences and similarities between statutes, acts, codes, administrative regulations, ordinances, and common law.
4.  Be able to differentiate between a plaintiff and a defendant.
5.  Be familiar with the court system and aspects of discovery.
6.  Recognize substitutes for the court system and their significance.
7.  Understand the protections and freedoms associated with a democracy.
8.  Compare and contrast morals and law.
9.  Recognize how society balances social forces.
10.  Be able to understand the significance of the Interstate Commerce Clause.
11.  Be able to apply federal pre-emption and federal supremacy to legal issues.
12.  Apply the first 10 Amendments to the US Constitution to legal situations.
13.  Understand the significance of the 14th Amendment.    
14.  Be familiar with the Sherman, Clayton & Robinson-Patman Antitrust Acts.
15.  Compare and contrast agency law to the bedrock interpretation of the US Constitution. 
16.  Recognize the significance of the Freedom of Information Act and the Sunshine Act.
17.  Explain the nature and classifications of crimes
18.  Describe the basis of criminal liability.
19.  Recognize US Constitutional issues related to crimes.
20.  Describe the differences between crimes such as larceny and embezzlement, and trespass and burglary.
21.  Compare and contrast English common law crimes and modern day crimes.
22.  Explain how the courts can expand or restrict constitutional and statutory language. 
23.  Recognize the differences between torts and crimes.
24.  Distinguishing between an assault and a battery. 
25.  Being able to explain the elements of negligence and the defenses.
26.  Recognizing strict liability legal issues, which include product liability and absolute liability.
27.  Know and be able to use the seven elements of contract law.
28.  Distinguish between how positive law and equity are involved in contract law.
29.  Be able to differentiate between which contracts need to be in writing and which contracts can be oral.
30.  Compare and contract option contracts and right of first refusal contracts.
31.  Be familiar with types of damages, such as compensative, punitive & liquidated.
32.  Be able to recognize legal concerns in regard to contracts.   
33.  Be able to recognize and explain the different types of bailments.
34.  Compare and contrast gift law and contract law.
35.  Explain the differences between real and personal property.
36.  Recognize the differences between tenancy in common, joint tenancy right of survivorship, tenancy by the entirety and community property.
37.  Be able to recognize and apply examples of adverse possession.
38.  Compare and contrast prescriptive easements to adverse possession.
39.  Describe the differences between licensee, trespasser, and invitee.
40.  Explain what a lien is and its significance in law.
41.  Compare and contrast a fee simple and a life estate.
42.  Compare and contrast zoning laws to restrictive covenants.
43.  Recognize and describe a zoning nonconforming use.
44.  Compare and contrast nonconforming uses to variances.
45.  Describe the differences between a Chapter 7, 11, and 13.
46.  Be able to explain what a preferential transfer is.
47.  Recognize the differences between a voluntary bankruptcy and an involuntary bankruptcy.
48.  Explain the priority of claims and an automatic stay in bankruptcy.
49.  Describe the exemptions in a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy. 
50.  Explain the nature and classifications of automobile insurance.
51.  Compare and contrast homeowners insurance to business insurance 
52.  Know and be able to apply insurable interest law to all areas of insurance.
53.  Explain burden of proof, bad faith and subrogation and apply these principles to insurance law.
54.  Compare and contrast inland marine insurance and ocean marine insurance.
55.  Distinguish the difference between term, whole life and endowment insurance.
56.  Explain the difference between workers compensation insurance and tort law.
57.  Define agency law.
58.  Compare and contrast actual agency authority to apparent agency authority.
59.  Compare and contrast an employee with an independent contractor.
60.  Describe the significance of the Fair Labor Standard Act to employment law.
61.  Recognize the labor law violations that can occur under the National Labor Relation Act.
62.  Distinguish between an at-will employee and a contract employee.
63.  Describe the different applications beyond retirement that the Social Security Act covers.
64.  Recognize what is covered and disallowed under the Unemployment Compensation Act.
65.  Under the 1964, Civil Rights Act, and its amendments, distinguish between the protections provided under religion, sex, national origin, race and color.
66.  Compare and contrast the Age Discrimination Act, and its amendments to the American with Disability Act.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Management


