CSR 50300 - Transitional Health Disparities: Research, Practice, And Policy

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will provide an overview of quantitative and qualitative research methods, measurement models, and research skills relevant to translational health science and the transfer/translation of knowledge from the research setting to applied practice settings. Course material will place special emphasis on research skills for developing health disparities translational researchers and strategies for being culturally competent, and career-minded in the mediation, cultivation, and development of translational research skills, and the implementation of evidence-based practices. Emphasis is placed on service needs of marginalized populations.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and describe quantitative and qualitative research methods relevant to translational research in health disparities; be able to discuss measurement models and demonstrate skills of research relevant to translational research in health disparities.
2.  Distinguish between core principles of implementation science and the transfer/translation of knowledge from the research setting to clinical practice settings in health disparities.
3.  Discuss definitions and terms related to evidence-based practice (EBP), the history and progression of EBP, and the importance of empirically supported knowledge transfer from research settings to clinical settings and policy initiatives in health disparities.
4.  Evaluate the importance of and need for culturally competent clinical and services research and the development of culturally adapted EBP's in health disparities.
5.  Summarize ethical principles in clinical and services research in health disparities.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


