NUTR 52100 - Advanced Medical Nutrition Therapy

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Application of the Nutrition Care Process in various disease states and conditions to prepare students for supervised practice. Prerequisite course for NUTR 56100 Experiential Learning In Medical Nutrition Therapy.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nutrition Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate how to locate, interpret, evaluate, and use professional literature to make ethical, evidence-based practice decisions.
2.  Use current information technologies to locate and apply evidence-based guidelines and protocols.
3.  Apply critical thinking skills.
4.  Demonstrate effective and professional oral and written communication and documentation.
5.  Describe the governance of nutrition and dietetics practice, such as the Scope of Nutrition and Dietetics Practice and the Code of Ethics for the Profession of Nutrition and Dietetics; and describe interprofessional relationships in various practice settings.
6.  Identify and describe the work of interprofessional teams and the roles of others with whom the registered dietitian nutritionist collaborates in the delivery of food and nutrition services.
7.  Demonstrate an understanding of cultural competence/sensitivity.
8.  Use the Nutrition Care Process to make decisions, identify nutrition-related problems and determine and evaluate nutrition interventions.
9.  Describe the regulation system related to billing and coding, what services are reimbursable by third party payers and how reimbursement may be obtained.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites:

NUTR52100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
NUTR
48000


May not be taken concurrently.
)



