BME 48901 - Senior Design Project

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The biomedical engineering design process is completed starting from a preparatory design course, BME 39000, through a preliminary system design, build and test in Senior Design Project, BME 48901. Students will work with their teammates to implement (e.g. build, test, iterate and evaluate) a solution to address a biomedical engineering problem statement and meet the technical specifications set forth. The resulting project design is presented and evaluated through an oral presentation, laboratory demonstration, and a final written document.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate ability to integrate and apply knowledge and skills obtained in earlier course work with new concepts and practices essential to the design and testing of a system or device to meet desired needs.
2.  Implement the engineering design process and project management within the context of relevant design constraints.
3.  Effectively communicate skills in oral and written form, both individually and as part of a team. 
4.  Explain/discuss realistic design constraints, including regulatory issues, societal influences, and ethical and professional responsibilities of biomedical engineers, as related to the engineering design process.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Biomedical Engr


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BME 20500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 20600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 30500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 30600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 49000 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


