BMS 80800 - Veterinary Cell And Tissue Biology Design II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  All lectures will focus on mammalian microanatomy with species differences and aim to include also a brief comparative description for Avian microanatomy when applicable. Structural and molecular basis of cellular processes that are the foundation of fertilization, embryogenesis, histogenesis, and basic tissue specialization in domesticated animals. Structure and function of macromolecules and organelles that mediate signal transduction, differentiation, and integration within a whole animal.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize, interpret, and communicate images of normal microscopic structure, using the language and conventions of medicine; 1. Recognize, interpret, and communicate images of normal microscopic structure, using the language and conventions of medicine.
 2.  An understanding of the relationship of development to normal microscopic structure.
 3.  An understanding of the molecular mechanisms of fundamental biological phenomena that signal and result in expression of the structures that underlie normal development and cellular physiology.
 4.  An understanding of the relationships of cellular organelles and inclusions to tissue, organ, and whole-animal physiology.
 5.  The skills to effectively use the light microscope for critical observation, analysis, and identification of cell, tissue, organ, and embryonic microstructure.
 6.  An awareness of selected species characteristics as well as structural variation representing physiology, artifact, gerontology, and pathology.
 7.  An awareness of significant links of cellular and tissue design to other disciplines of veterinary medicine and biomedical sciences.
 8.  An appreciation of the utility and necessity of the active learning process for developing and maintaining competency as a veterinarian and/or biomedical scientist.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Veterinary Medicine

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  BMS 80700 Minimum Grade of D-


