VCS 82800 - Clinical Rotation In Neurology And Physical Rehabilitation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The first week of the 3 week block students will spend 100% of the time on the neurology service. Week 2 and 3 of the block the students will spend 100% of the time on the physical rehabilitation service. The course is a 3.0-credit elective clinical rotation. Currently the neurology service receives three days per week (M, W, F) and the physical rehabilitation service received new appointments one day per week (T) and recheck appointments daily (M-F). A PVM clinician will lead this elective rotation. The majority of cases will be small animal patients, but some exposure to large animal, equine and small ruminant cases may take place. Students are also expected to practice clinical and technical skills which are required for each service. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Gain experience in performing physical/neurological examinations, localizing lesions, generating differential diagnoses, and selecting an appropriate treatment plan for animals presented to the Neurology service.
2.  Integrate knowledge to provide patient care, including medical management, preoperative, surgical, and postoperative care of client-owned animals.  This includes principles of analgesia, fluids, drugs, nutrition, exercise limitations and/or rehabilitation. 
3.  Develop greater knowledge, clinical judgement, surgical/technical skills, and diagnostic capabilities that enable management of more complex cases.
4.  Increase the student's clinical experience in diagnosis and treatment of common ailments for which physical rehabilitation is recommended.
5.  Develop exposure to both orthopedic and neurologic conditions in the more chronic stage of treatment.  Typically students are exposed to such conditions during the peri-diagnosis period.  This rotation would give students exposure to disease and post-operative healing 2-8 weeks following diagnosis/surgical repair.
6.  Learn how to appropriately select PT modalities for a patient.
7.  Learn how to appropriately use different PT modalities.
8.  Learn how to perform goniometry and limb girth.
9.  Learn how to perform a gait lab analysis and how to interpret the findings.
10.  Learn how to perform therapeutic exercises such as massage and range of motion.
11.  Improve oral and written communication skills and medical documentation.
12.  Practice the principles of teamwork and professionalism through interactions with faculty/clinicians, colleagues, technicians, and pet owners.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


