MGMT 65370 - Industrial Relations II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  An examination of union-management relations topics that build on material addressed in OBHR 640. Topics include causes of strikes, impasse resolution techniques, grievance and arbitration procedures, public sector labor relations, labor-management cooperation, and international labor-management relations. Emphasis is on how changes in the competitive environment have created the need for changes in the traditional union-management relationship. Films, cases, exercises, and guest speakers are utilized.  Prerequisite:  OBHR 64000 or MGMT 65360. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the various forms of alternative dispute resolution techniques, such as  mediation, arbitration, and peer review, as utilized in both the private and public sectors.  
2.  Demonstrate understanding of key concepts from the course such as why workers join unions, the usefulness of the strike, how industrial relations works in the unionized sector versus in the employment at will sector of the economy, etc.  
3.  Outline the labor management relationship in a major industry such as airlines, health care, entertainment, etc. showing understanding of the past, present and future of industrial relations in that sector.  
4.  Develop the ability to think critically about the major issues that face unions and management as we move into the middle part of the century.  
5.  Develop the ability to critically evaluate the positions of labor and management on key issue such as recent Supreme Court decisions like Janus, the factors that should be utilized in making promotion decisions, just cause for discharge, etc.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-MS

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Management-PHD

      Org Behav and HR Mgmt-MS

      Management-MBA

      Management-MSIA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


