AGEC 34000 - International Economic Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to introduce students to issues and problems related to international economic development. Topics covered include a description of the current situation in developing countries and the history of growth and development. The course is grounded in the body of theory associated with economic development, but concentrates on the many practical problems such as poverty, population growth, urbanization, education and the environment. The three areas with the greatest attention are agricultural development, international trade, and policy analysis for developing countries.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agricultural Economics 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Build an appreciation for the conditions and constraints of contemporary life in developing countries.
2.  Have your own notions of what it means to live in poverty, the challenges of improving welfare, and the role of economics in development.
3.  Demonstrate how economic principles, models, and analysis can help evaluate and refine approaches to improving human welfare in developing countries.
4.  Develop the ability to analyze and write about real-world problems and solutions. The course, particularly the assignments, will allow you to acquire technical skills that will contribute to your future professional work.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  AGEC 20300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  AGEC 20400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  AGEC 21700 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1040 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2020 Minimum Grade of D-


