ENGL 34400 - Environmental Ethics, Policy, And Sustainability

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Environmental Ethics, Policy and Sustainability is an interdisciplinary course designed to open new pathways into ethical and eco-critical inquiry in the Anthropocene age. The course analyzes disciplinary differences in approaching the ethical, the human, and environmental problems such as sustainability, development, biodiversity, global security, and climate change. Students will explore what it means to be ethical in and through an interrogation of our contemporary conceptions of what it means to be human. These interrogations in turn will prompt us to reconsider human creations such as knowledge, culture, and technology, which will push us to genuinely think how humans as a species situate their creations within the realm of what they call Nature. Students will be introduced to the history of environmental studies in the discipline, to the rise of what is now known as "postcolonial ecocriticism" to theoretical inquiry into modern technology, and to other recent developments in the fields of environmental studies. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: English 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn, describe, and relate key developments in environmental ethics.
2.  Distinguish and translate different perspectives concerning ethical challenges.
3.  Comprehend the efficacies of environmental positions, and learn to push the boundaries of different disciplinary approaches to environmental dilemmas.
4.  Evaluate the limitations of positions and the complex frameworks surrounding ethical problems in order to offer more imaginative and resilient solutions.



