EDPS 56300 - Identification, Evaluation, And Assessment Of Exceptional Individuals

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Advanced procedures for educational assessment of exceptional individuals: norm-referenced and curriculum-based measurement, error analyses, and observational ratings. Adaptations and selections of tests for sensory impairments, behavioral styles, different intelligence levels and ages. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an awareness of legal, social, and cultural issues as they relate to the assessment of individuals with special needs. 
2.  Demonstrate an understanding of the statistical properties and statistical uses of tests 
3.  Demonstrate knowledge of the reasons for assessment and the steps in the educational assessment process. 
4.  Distinguish between norm-referenced, criterion-referenced, and individual referenced assessment procedures. 
5.  Demonstrate skill in the administration, and scoring of classroom assessment systems for academic skills (e.g., reading, math, spelling, and writing), including norm-referenced, criterion referenced, and individual-referenced tests. 
6.  Demonstrate knowledge of various decision-making systems and reporting formats. 
7.  Demonstrate skills the interpretation of the data and in reporting the results of a comprehensive educational and process assessment 
8.  Demonstrate skills in using the interpretation for planning an IEP or accommodations for student with special needs. 




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


