CS 57900 - Bioinformatics Algorithms

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Review of Genomes, DNA, RNA, proteins, proteomes. Biological Sequences: dynamic programming; pairwise global, local, and semi-global alignments of genes and proteins; constant, affine, and general gap penalties; RNA alignments; BLOSUM and PAM scoring matrices. Multiple alignment of proteins: approximation algorithms; iterative and progressive alignment methods. Database search for sequences: BLAST and variants. Phylogenetic Trees: distance-based methods, ultrametric and additive distance functions; parsimony, and maximum likelihood methods. Whole Genome Alignment: suffix trees and suffix arrays. Systems Biology: Module discovery in biological networks, spectral algorithms for graph clustering. Network alignment: quadratic programming formulations and graph matching. Genetic Variation: haplotype inference, the perfect phylogeny problem and chordal graphs. Additional topics such as next-generation sequencing, analysis of multidimensional data from flow cytometry, and gene expression data, if time permits.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Computer Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Students will learn how to design algorithms.
2.  Students will learn how to solve computational problems from the new biology, the data-rich field that biological sciences is becoming.  




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CS 57900 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CS
38100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



