MGMT 11000 - Introduction To Management And Information Strategies

Credit Hours: 2.00.  An introduction to and survey of the field of business. Exposure to the different functional areas of management will be stressed. Focus will be on the individual development of the student in regard not only to future professional employment but also to his or her educational planning.  Designed to build and sharpen students' information-gathering skills. Guides students in developing systematic methods for finding, evaluating, and presenting information. Students apply their knowledge of business in a Case Competition. Required for freshman Krannert Leaders Academy students. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Lecture 1 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Honors, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn how to manage themselves.
2.  Identify various professional development options available to them.
3.  Reflect upon what type of Krannert student they would like to be.
4.  Learn strategies and tactics to help them transition to college life
5.  Analyze and rank different main areas of business in accordance with individual interests.
6.  Learn how to manage teams.
7.  Reflect upon their behavior within a group.
8.  Learn how to manage a small team to be efficient
9.  Compete in a freshmen case competition to explore further how to practice teamwork in a case environment.
10.  Use information and fundamentals of business to make decisions
11.  Understand the fundamental vocabulary of business.
12.  Become aware of various resources that are available to them through the library.
13.  Break down problems into segments.
14.  Use information to make decisions in groups.
15.  Become acquainted with numerous people associated with Krannert's past, current, and future endeavors.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


