MSE 52700 - Introduction To Biomaterials

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course aims to introduce students to Biomaterials concepts: structure, properties, and applications. The class will cover the main classes of materials: metals, ceramics and polymers in the context of their use in medicine as implant materials, drug delivery vehicles, and as tissue engineering scaffolds. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Materials Engr 

Department: Materials Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Be familiar with the main concepts of Biomaterials principles: biocompatibility, structure-property-applications relationships, mechanical response of natural tissues, cellular pathways for tissue-material ingrowth.
2.  Understand the requirements for metals and alloys, as well as ceramic materials to be used in load bearing implants (corrosion concepts, stress shielding, mechanical properties, composition).
3.  Understand what properties of polymers impact their use in medicine (leaching and swelling, creep and stress relaxation).
4.  Understand the tissue response to biomaterials: cytotoxicity, carcinogenicity, immune reactions.
5.  Be able to expand the understanding of materials concepts to drug delivery applications (polymer degradation, encapsulation) and tissue engineering (scaffold porosity, diffusion of nutrients, mechanical properties).




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      College of Engineering

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      Graduate School

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      College of Science

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


