EPCS 20200 - Sophomore Participation In EPICS

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Continuation of EPCS courses (see EPCS 10100).  Sophomores participating in EPCS 20100 gain insight into the specific project, and, more generally, into the design and development process.  They attend planning and reporting meetings with the customer and are expected attend all team meetings.  Under the mentorship of the team's juniors and seniors they perform and report upon tasks consistent with their level of discipline expertise.  EPCS 20200 is offered for two credits. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: Engr Prog In Community Service 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      IUPUI

      West Lafayette

      Columbus


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understand the design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Able to identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Aware of the customer.
5.  Able to function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Able to communicate effectively with audiences with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Aware of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Appreciate the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EPCS 10100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  EPCS 20100 Minimum Grade of D-


