ECE 20100 - Linear Circuit Analysis I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Volt-ampere characteristics for circuit elements; independent and dependent sources; Kirchhoff's laws and circuit equations. Source transformations; Thevenin's and Norton's theorems; superposition, step response of 1st order (RC, RL) and 2nd order (RLC) circuits. Phasor analysis, impedance calculations, and computation of sinusoidal steady state responses. Instantaneous and average power, complex power, power factor correction, and maximum power transfer. Instantaneous and average power.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Exempt, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      IUPUI

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. An ability to define and explain the meaning/function of charge, current, voltage, power, energy, R, L, C, the op amp, and the fundamental principles of Ohm's Law, KVL and KCL.
2  An ability to write the equilibrium equations for a given network and solve using appropriate software as needed for the steady state (dc and ac/phasor) solution. 
3. An ability to state and apply the principles of superposition, linearity, source transformations, computation of responses.
4. An ability to qualitatively predict and compute the step responses of first order (RL and RC) and second order (RLC) circuits.
5. An ability to qualitatively predict and compute the steady state ac responded of basic circuits using the phasor method. 
6. An ability to compute effective and average values of periodic signals and compute the instantaneous and average powers delivered to a circuit element.
7. An ability to compute the complex power associated with a circuit element and design a circuit to improve the power factor in an ac circuit. 
8. An ability to determine the conditions for maximum power transfer to any circuit element. 
9. An ability to analyze resistive and RC op amp circuit and design simple amplifiers using op amps.    




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

      Construction Engineering Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  MA 16200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16600 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ENGR 13100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 14100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 13300 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  PHYS 17200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  PHYS 15200 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 17400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 18200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 27100 Minimum Grade of D-)


