CHE 45000 - Design And Analysis Of Processing Systems

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Use of process synthesis methods and concepts; detailed design of unit operation equipment, the economics of chemical plants and flow sheet optimization methods. Synthesize, develop, and evaluate a preliminary design of a chemical process that meets market requirements for a specific product. Analysis of design alternatives using case studies and optimization methods.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Chemical Engineering 

Department: Chemical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply systematic strategies for synthesizing chemical process designs that involve conventional unit operations. 
2.  Describe both the difference between  steady state and batch chemical processes and the implications on their design and operation.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to obtain reliable information on industrial chemical processes, process operating parameters, equipment costs, cost of chemicals and materials, and associated safety and environmental hazards. 
4.  Describe the role of physical property estimates on process design and be able to use appropriate physical property estimation methods in unit operations design. 
5.  Estimate the capital and operating cost of a process and to assess its profitability.
6.  Use process simulators and other tools to perform detailed analyses for the successful design of a chemical plant.
7.  Communicate effectively project progress and final results in a professional manner both orally and in writing. 
8.  Work effectively in a team to execute open-ended design projects with time-bound deliverables in a professional and ethical manner, including different team roles.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Chemical Engineering


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHE 30600 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHE 37800 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHE 42000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CHE 45600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CHE 43500 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


