HK 30400 - Therapeutic Exercise

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course will introduce the athletic training student to the planning and implementation of a comprehensive reconditioning program for injuries and conditions sustained by physically active individuals. Techniques of therapeutic exercise as they apply to athletic training will be examined. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the normal physiological response of the human body to trauma, the physiological process of wound healing and tissue repair, and the implications for selection and use of therapeutic modalities and rehabilitation exercises.
2.  Identify and explain the components of a comprehensive rehabilitation program including: determination of therapeutic goals and objectives, selection of therapeutic modalities and exercise, methods of evaluation and documenting rehabilitation progress, and development of criteria for progression and return to activity.
3.  Design and implement rehabilitation programs for the major joints.
4.  Demonstrate and instruct the application of therapeutic exercises and the implementation of a rehabilitation plan.
5.  Demonstrate techniques for improving flexibility, range of motion, strength, endurance, power, proprioception and balance, cardiorespiratory endurance, and functional return to play activities.
6.  Describe the different types of patient oriented and clinician oriented outcome measures used and identify appropriate measures to use with a patient for common rehabilitation problems.
7.  Answer a clinical question by forming a PICO, searching the scientific literature, and synthesizing a report using the highest forms of evidence in the form of a Critically Appraised Topic (CAT).
8.  Use available peer-reviewed resources to examine a common condition presented to a rehabilitation professional and construct an evidence-based injury rehabilitation protocol for return to competitive activities.
9.  Follow a rehabilitation case from start to finish, reflect on the experience and treatments provided, and construct a case study report abstract following NATA Foundation guidelines.
10.  Perform a case study oral presentation using professional communication skills.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Athletic Training


