CE 41400 - Building Mechanical And Electrical System Design

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covers the design of building mechanical and electrical systems. In the first part of the course students learn principles of designing and integrating heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems into building air delivery systems, mechanical cooling and heating technologies, duct design and layout, blower and pump selection, and hydronic systems. They also learn to design heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems within the constraint of achieving satisfactory occupant thermal comfort in buildings. The second part of the course covers design concepts related to building electrical systems; including, single and three-phase power systems, motors, transformers, switching, and relays. The course includes a design project related to mechanical and electrical systems for a commercial building.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Utilize building thermal load information together with a knowledge of industry standards and numerical methods to design and integrate efficient heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems into commercial and residential buildings. 
2.  Understand the benefits and drawbacks of conventional and innovative mechanical systems, and identify appropriate opportunities for the selection and integration of both. 
3.  Evaluate the performance and estimate energy consumption of common mechanical systems and components. 
4.  Understand the operating characteristics and appropriately size the components that are integrated into building electrical systems. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CE 31100 Minimum Grade of D-


