PTEC 40800 - Capstone And Planning

Credit Hours: 4.00 to 8.00.  The final in a series of transdisciplinary, real-world, project-based work and conversations exploring the intersections of humanities and technology, social and natural sciences. Capstone projects emphasize design thinking; collaboration; communication; hands-on prototyping; testing; assessing. Learners will engage in individual and team project work and conversations that will demonstrate proficiency based on the learner's experience, goals, and learning needs. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 TO     8.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Studio, Studio 1 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 16 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an emerging to proficient level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of science, technology, and quantitative reasoning using project-based techniques to address unstructured, real-world problems.
2.  Demonstrate an emerging to proficient level of understanding and skill by completing an authentic, full-lifecycle, individual or team based project.
3.  Demonstrate a proficient level of understanding of connecting acquired knowledge and skills to the primary program competencies.
4.  Complete a reflection on learning, and prepare near and midterm plans and checkpoints for future learning.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Transdisciplinary Studies-BSTS


Prerequisites:

PTEC 40800 Requisites


General Requirements:

Course or Test: 
PTEC
30800


Required Courses: 
   2

Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.


