VM 86500 - History Of Veterinary Medicine From Marshals, Horse Doctors, Cow Leeches, The First Schools Of VM

Credit Hours: 1.00.  The students will study the history of marshals, horse doctors, cow leeches, and authors, an emphasis on the launching of European veterinary education with a rationale for a veterinary profession, and the history of the first official schools of veterinary medicine in France (Lyon and Alfort), concluding with the history of the increasing demand for veterinary schools.  Particular attention will be paid to works that help demonstrate man's fascination with animals and their well-being.  This course is appropriate for students with no previous study of history or art history.  Special note: This syllabus and course schedule is subject to revisions as needed throughout the semester.  Students will be given advance notice of any change.  Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Appreciate and understand the history of veterinary progress that ultimately led to the establishment of a respectable veterinary profession based on comparative medicine dedicated to the health of animals.
2.  Cite examples of books that demonstrate the development of veterinary medicine from the sixteenth to the nineteenth centuries.
3.  Trace the progress in understanding diseases that led to veterinary progress.
4.  Describe the history of animal care from the Middle Ages to the nineteenth century.
5.  Explain the roots of equine medicine in Europe that led to the first schools of veterinary medicine in France. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Veterinary Medicine

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year

      Professional Third Year

      Professional First Year


