VM 34500 - Management I

Credit Hours: 1.50. The course will introduce students to concepts related to working in and managing a veterinary practice. Emphasis will be on client communication and education as well as facilitating a job search, interviewing and cover letter and resume creation. Typically offered Spring.

    1.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.   Create a professional cover letter and resume. 
2.   Properly prepare for and participate in employment interviews.
3.   Utilize techniques that build excellent relationships by exceeding client expectations, providing great client service and building a rapport with clients. 
4.   Utilize techniques for handling emotional or difficult clients.
5.   Utilize techniques for working with special needs clients.
6.   Explain the grief process.
7.   Discuss professionalism and legal and ethical issues related to the veterinary technology profession.
8.   Describe the ways in which fees are set for products and services at a veterinary clinic.
9.   Define marketing and describe how marketing strategies can be used in a veterinary clinic setting.
10. Describe inventory management strategies.
11. Identify professional organizations related to veterinary technology and veterinary practice management. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BMS 33100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 22800 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 32100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 32200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 32300 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 34300 Minimum Grade of D-


