HSCI 54800 - Advanced Industrial Hygiene Instrumentation Techniques

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covers sophisticated field and laboratory instrumentation and techniques, sampling methodology for organic vapors, dust, fibers, noise, and heat; calibration and validation techniques; emphasis on critical analysis of data.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use scientific and engineering principles to anticipate and recognize potential health hazards in the workplace.
2.  Interpret the scientific literature and health data and apply these to the anticipating, recognition, evaluation and control of occupational hazards in the workplace.
3.  Describe/understand different approaches for controlling exposures in the occupational environment and give hypothetical and real situations in terms of the best control methods and relative pros and cons.
4.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of heat stress and heat strain and apply this knowledge to prevent heat injury in the workplace.
5.  Understand the potential sources of indoor air quality problems, physical symptoms which may be experiences by individuals exposed to various contaminants, and methods of improving the indoor environment.
6.  Identify biological contaminants and methods of controlling exposure.
7.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of noise-induced hearing loss and apply this knowledge to assess exposure and prevent hearing loss in the workplace.
8.  Perform calculations of noise levels, noise doses and the effectiveness of noise control options.
9.  Select and size the components of a local exhaust ventilation system: hoods, ductwork, air cleaners, fans and balance/test such systems, culminating in the ability to design a small ventilation system.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


Prerequisites:

GR HSCI 54800 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
34500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
)



