PHRM 82400 - Principles Of Pathophysiology And Drug Action

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course introduces the basic principles of pathophysiology, pharmacodynamics, toxicology and medicinal chemistry necessary to understand the therapeutic use and adverse actions of drugs. The course will integrate and apply concepts of science courses, including organic chemistry, biochemistry, anatomy and physiology into an understanding of the basic fundamentals of disease processes, toxicology and drug actions. Thus, this course will provide students with the basic background necessary to understand and apply pharmacotherapeutics to the practice of pharmacy. Prerequisite:  MCMP 20400, 20500, 20800, and BIOL 20300, 20400 or 30100, 30200. Departmental permission required.  Typically offered Fall. 


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Conceptual Competence: Pathophysiology, Principles of pharmacology.
2.  Scientific Comprehension: Basic principles of thermodynamics and kinetics and their role in defining chemical processes; Basic principles of drug design and their chemical and biochemical mechanisms of drug action.
3.  Critical Thinking and Decision Making Abilities: Synthesize information in order to draw logical conclusions; Provide evidence-based support for arguments, recommendations and solutions; Demonstrate the ability to make sound decisions given complex scenarios in a time-constrained environment. 
4.  Communication Skills and Abilities: Demonstrate the ability to present ideas, plans, and data in appropriate written formats to succinctly and effectively communicate with various audiences.  
5.  Responsible use of Professional Values and Ethical Principles: Exhibit professional behavior at all times in congruence with the pharmacist code of ethics.
6.  Professional  Abilities and Habits: Demonstrate the ability to self-access and take needed steps to achieve competence; exhibit positive, professional, empathic attitudes and behaviors in all intra- and interprofessional communications. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Pharmacy-BS

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


