CHE 32000 - Statistical Modeling And Quality Enhancement

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Statistical modeling methods, design of experiments, error analysis, curve fitting and regression, analysis of variance, confidence intervals, quality control and enhancement: emphasizes preparation for designing chemical engineering laboratory experiments and analyzing data.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Practice Study Observation 


Offered By: School of Chemical Engineering 

Department: Chemical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Utilize the concepts of probability for use with the normal and t distributions, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. 
2.  Apply least squares fitting of data by use of linear algebra with computers.
3.  Apply regression and model building from data with experimental error obtained with replicates to establish an adequate model.
4.  Design experiments for single and multiple factors and apply regression to model the results.
5.  Apply propagation of error and sources of variation or variance components.
6.  Apply statistical quality control and improvement with various charts such as average, range, and cusum (concepts of consumer and producer risk and capability index are included).




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Chemical Engr-BSE

      Biological Engineering-BSE


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHE 20500 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ABE 20100 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  CHM 26100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 25500 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 25700 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]) and (Undergraduate level  MA 26200 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MATH 26200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 26500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 35100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


