KOR 30100 - Korean Level V

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course aims to help students develop their language skills in four areas-speaking, listening, reading, and writing- in Korean at the advanced level. It covers grammar and vocabulary, reading comprehension, fluency, conversation manners, and public speaking. Emphasis will be on the appropriate use of Korean in a variety of situations including schools, companies, and formal/informal meetings. This course also enables students to understand Korean culture and history and to develop cross-cultural insights by comparing Korean society with US society. Korean history, image of Korea, and current social trends in Korea will be discussed for a solid understanding of Korean culture in which Korean language is embedded. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Obtain knowledge about linguistic structures and language-related cultures through linguistic and cultural analysis and synthesis of various types of data.
2.  Apply their linguistic and cultural knowledge to comprehend (reading and listening) and produce (writing and speaking) language.
3.  Assess paragraph-length texts and oral discourse to comprehend provided texts and dialogue in the classroom.
4.  Explain orally in Korean topics that are based on personal experiences in order to successfully interact with native speakers on a prepared topic.
5.  Analyze, learn, and produce forms of polite speech, forms to describe past experience, and forms to express supposition.
6.  Compose written language in Korean to meet practical writing needs that address the present, past, and some hypothetical situations.
7.  Describe facts and evidence related to Korean history, culture, and daily life through simple authentic texts and materials such as magazines, drama skits, movies, K-pop lyrics, or traditional grams.



Prerequisites:

KOR 30100 Prerequisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
KOR
20200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
KOR
              36
 to 
              37

May not be taken concurrently.
)



