PTEC 30802 - Deep Immersion II

Credit Hours:  3.00.  Part two of the third in a series of transdisciplinary, real-world, project-based work and conversations exploring the intersections of humanities and technology, social and natural sciences. Projects emphasize design thinking; collaboration; communication; hands-on prototyping; testing; assessing. Learners will engage in individual and team project work and conversations that will change in scale and scope based on the learner's experience, goals, and learning needs.  Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of science, technology, and quantitative reasoning using project-based techniques to address unstructured, real-world problems.
2. Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding and skill with individual and team based project work.
3. Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of technology and culture using a variety of effective communication techniques.
4. Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of information literacy using a variety of effective communication techniques.
5. Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of connecting acquired knowledge and skills to the primary program competencies.



Corequisites: 

PTEC 30602


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  PTEC 10601 Minimum Grade of P or Undergraduate level  PTEC 10601 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  PTEC 10801 Minimum Grade of P or Undergraduate level  PTEC 10801 Minimum Grade of D-)


