CHM 42400 - Analytical Chemistry II

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Principles and application of optical and electrical methods of chemical analysis, including topics in instrumentation.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Chemistry 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to write scientific reports, with graphical representation of data.
2.  Able to document scientific information and experimental data.
3.  Able to use theory to understand/predict experimental observations.
4.  Able to demonstrate an understanding of the physical properties and a molecular understanding of chemical reactivity and materials.
5.  Able to develop problem-solving skills: identifying the objective.
6.  Able to make quantitative/structural measurements and interpret results; evaluate data for quality and reliability.
7.  Able to recognize and use chemical instrumentation and spectroscopic methods.
8.  Able to organize data for meaningful interpretation, including causes of experimental error, limitations of data.
9.  Able to use statistics to judge limitation of data; use math to understand data.
10.  Able to reduce complex problems into simpler components.
11.  Able to practice professional behavior: reliability, punctuality, efficiency.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  CHM 32100 Minimum Grade of D or Undergraduate level  CHM 32300 Minimum Grade of D) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 37300 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHEM C3610 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHE 21100 Minimum Grade of D) and (   (Undergraduate level  CHM 37400 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 37000 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHEM C3620 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently]) or (Undergraduate level  CHEM C3100 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  CHEM C3110 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently])   )


