ECON 34000 - Intermediate Microeconomic Theory

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides students with the techniques needed to model and analyze the behavior of individual economic agents. It introduces a variety of techniques that will allow students to solve business problems and make informed personal economic decisions. The course covers topics from consumer behavior and demand, decisions under uncertainty, production and cost, factor demand, market structure, pricing strategies, and strategic behavior. This is an upper-division economics course required for all economics majors and it serves as a foundation for higher level elective courses in economics.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze the means by which individuals and firms make rational choices when demanding and supplying goods and services.
2.  Describe the equilibrium outcomes of individuals and firms interacting in markets.
3.  Evaluate market outcomes in terms of economic efficiency.
4.  Practice analytical and quantitative reasoning skills.
5.  Identify and describe the management and pricing strategies of competitive, monopolistic, monopsonistic, and oligopolistic firms.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Actuarial Science

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  AGEC 20300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  AGEC 20400 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of C-)


