CLPH 45400 - Advanced Practice In Psychiatric Pharmacy

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The purpose of this course is to provide the student with knowledge and insight regarding the use of medications in persons with mental illness. Instruction will be provided in the following areas (but not limited to): (1) psychiatric disease states; (2) psychiatric medications - usual dosing, adverse effects, drug interactions; (3) clinical use of psychiatric medications in psychiatric pharmacy practice; (4) useful and appropriate monitoring parameters; (5) the interaction of medical illness in the treatment of psychiatric disorders; (6) strategies to improve medication adherence and minimize adverse events; (7) utilization of recognized treatment guidelines in clinical care. Case-based learning will be utilized to emphasize important points in clinical use and monitoring of psychiatric medications and disorders. Permission of instructor required.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Define and understand the DSM-IV, TR diagnostic criteria for selected psychiatric disorders.
2.  Recognize significant co-morbid psychiatric and medical disorders common in the psychiatric population.
3.  Classify psychiatric medications based upon FDA-approved and evidence-based reasons for use.
4.  Characterize psychiatric medications based upon common reason for use, neuropharmacology and mechanism of action, significant adverse events & warnings   for use, drug interactions, dosage forms, and usual dose ranges.
5.  Develop techniques for the critical evaluation of psychiatric literature.
6.  Apply the psychiatric literature to the clinical treatment of psychiatric disorders.
7.  Identify applicable treatment guidelines and develop strategies for implementing guidelines in clinical practice.
8.  Discuss the impact of substance dependence upon the treatment of psychiatric illness.
9.  Identify drug interactions and adverse events related to complicated psychiatric medication regimens and make sound recommendations for drug therapy.
10.  Identify potential medication adherence issues and made recommendations to improve medication use and patient outcomes in clinical practice.
11.  Develop an understanding of the psychiatric treatment team and the role of the pharmacist.
12.  Apply knowledge learned to clinical case examples.
13.  Proactively participate and interact during in-class case discussions.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CLPH 44900 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


