HDFS 40900 - Science In Preschool And Primary Grades

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on teaching science in preschool and primary grade classrooms. Developmental foundations and curriculum applications of science teaching including ways to plan, implement and evaluate developmentally appropriate science instruction for young children with and without disabilities and those who are learning English. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe principles of developmentally appropriate early childhood education and intervention as they relate to teaching science.
2.  Demonstrate an understanding of how children think about science concepts at developmental levels between birth and 8 years.
3.  Demonstrate understanding of critical approaches to scientific thinking.
4.  Understand key science knowledge and skills that children need to learn from Pre-K to Grade 3 as represented in current science education standards.
5.  Assess children's science knowledge, skills, and dispositions, and use the assessment data to plan science education activities.
6.  Plan, implement, and evaluate developmentally appropriate classroom science activities, including responding to the needs of diverse learners.
7.  Demonstrate positive dispositions and skills of an early childhood teacher, as described in this syllabus and in the practicum evaluation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]) and Undergraduate level  HDFS 40500 Minimum Grade of B- and Undergraduate level  HDFS 40800 Minimum Grade of B-


