HK 31800 - Strength And Conditioning And Exercise Instruction Across The Lifespan

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide students with an overview of educational concepts, program design and instructional/leadership skills for designing and instructing exercise programs. Students will obtain hands-on experience conducting exercise programs for strength and conditioning, cardiorespiratory fitness, and flexibility throughout the semester. Students will learn to work with a variety of populations throughout the semester. Students will be evaluated on their effectiveness in designing and instruction exercise sessions for both individual and group led scenarios. This course is designed to help students prepare for future clinical practice and certifications, such as the ACSM Certified Clinical Exercise Physiologist. Must have CPR/AED, First Aid certifications. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe musculoskeletal anatomy, physiology and biomechanics related to exercise and the effects of resistance training, cardiorespiratory training and flexibility.
2.  Perform fitness assessments and client intake interviews to acquire clients' baseline fitness, health history, exercise background and goals, to allow for proper exercise program development.
3.  Develop and administer group exercise and/or group personal training classes incorporating muscle conditioning, aerobic training, HIIT, circuit training, etc.
4.  Develop and implement resistance training programs for client/s based upon initial assessment data and intake information, and adjust the program throughout the semester.
5.  Describe modifications and appropriate precautions required when developing and instructing exercise programs for populations with special health/physical concerns.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HK 42200 Minimum Grade of D-


