PHRM 83100 - Health Care Systems

Credit Hours: 2.00. This course is envisioned as a primarily didactic course whose main purpose is to provide students with an introduction to the structures and functions of the United States Health Care System. It is also designed to provide the student an opportunity to compare and contrast the methods used in other countries to address the needs of society for provision of health care to its members. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to meld theory and abilities in the practice setting to enhance positive patient outcomes. 
2.  Promote health improvement and disease prevention.
3.  Identify and implement strategies to encourage patient adherence to therapeutic interventions.  
4.  Examine issues rationally, logically, and coherently, and shall acquire evaluate, and synthesize information and knowledge relevant to an identified problem; and make sound decisions in both familiar and unfamiliar contexts.
5.  Sythesize information in order to draw logical conclusions. 
6.  Provide evidence-based support for arguments, recommendations, and solutions. 
7.  Read, write, speak, listen, and use media, and appropriate technologies to send and respond effectively to communications for varied audiences and purposes. 
8.  Demonstrate the ability to present ideas, plans, and data in appropriate written formats to succinctly and effectively communicate with various audiences. 
9.  Interact with other pharmacists, physicians, nurses, and other healthcare professionals to achieve positive patient outcomes. 
10.  Interact with technicians and other support staff to develop and maintain a positive and productive work environment.
11.  Demonstrate sensitivity to personal values and ethical principles in professional and social contexts.
12.  Maintain professional competence through sound judgment, ethical behavior, adherence to legal guidelines and socioeconomic principles.  
13.  Demonstrate values consistent with the provision of quality healthcare to all patient groups and populations. 
14.  Demonstrate an understanding of self, the strengths and challenges of cultural diversity, and the historic responses of society in times of rapid change.
15.  Demonstrate awareness of key issues and debates in healthcare.
16.  Self-assess and satisfy learning and continuous professional development on an ongoing basis.
17.  Take an active role in professional and community organizations and promote advocacy for key healthcare and professional initiatives.
18.  Demonstrate awareness of and be able to analyze internal and external factors that influence the practice of pharmacy and healthcare policy in an attempt to resolve practice-related problems.
19.  Demonstrate effective interpersonal and intergroup behaviors in a variety of situations and circumstances.
20.  Demonstrate awareness of the roles of various healthcare professionals in multiple healthcare environments.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


