ABE 51100 - Drug Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (TLI 52100)  A review of drug discovery and drug development, with emphasis on the regulatory aspects of these activities. Animal preclinical research and human clinical research are discussed in detail. In addition, the process for the assembly of an IND and NDA is discussed along with the Phases (I,II,III) of human clinical trials. The CMC (chemistry manufacturing and control) aspects of drug development are presented along with ICH documents and manufacturing process analytical technologies. The course concludes with a brief review of international regulatory issues and patents.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Comprehend strategies used for biotechnology innovation: regulatory and quality documents and materials in the areas of drug development and discovery.
2.  Ability to meld theory and practice.
3.  Examine issues rationally, logically, and coherently; and acquire, evaluate, and synthesize information and knowledge relevant to an identified problem; and make sound decisions in both familiar and unfamiliar contexts.  
4.  Read, write, speak, listen, and use data, media and computers to send and respond effectively to communication for varied audiences and purposes.
5.  Demonstrate sensitivity to and facility with personal values and ethical principles in professional and social contexts.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Graduate School

      College of Pharmacy

      Doctor of Pharmacy

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-ABE 51100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ABE
22600


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
ABE
22700


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



