CEM 53100 - Facilities Engineering And Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides the student with an understanding of the issues related to facilities management for owner organizations.  The course is oriented toward upper class and graduate students familiar with the delivery of capital construction projects and provides an owner's perspective of capital construction and ongoing operation. The course will focus on the total life-cycle cost of a capital construction project beginning with planning, business rationale, economic analysis, and programmatic specifications. The owner's perspective on annual operating costs will be examined including calculation of daily, weekly, monthly, and annual operating costs. The implications of stewardship and customer service will be reviewed and analyzed including the implications on total life-cycle costs. The human resources implications of operating a facility will be reviewed including determination of staffing requirements to meet various levels of service as well as tools and techniques to determine and manage contracted services. Numerous case studies will be described and discussed  which will demonstrate the importance of careful planning and budgeting of annual and periodic maintenance. Issues of sustainability, regulations, and other legal factors will be discussed and examined.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Gain an understanding of the cost implications associated with the decision to construct a new facility via a total cost of ownership perspective as well as understanding the service delivery expectations.
2.  Learn methods for formulating and analyzing costs of operations including capital renewal.
3.  Learn concepts of management of facilities (institutional, commercial, residential, and manufacturing).
4.  Learn external factors related to owning and/or operating facilities of various sizes.
5.  Learn prioritization, stewardship, management and decision making for capital projects.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


