ECON 36100 - Antitrust And Regulation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course studies the influence of laws and regulations on market performance and on the functioning of a free-enterprise system. The focus is on two types of government policies: antitrust law and economic regulation. Antitrust laws define the rules by which firms are supposed to compete. Regulations may require that firms obtain approval to set prices, change prices, or enter new markets. They may require firms to adhere to environmental or safety standards. The focus is on current topics in both areas, including comparison of U.S. practice with that of European Union and elsewhere.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a basic understanding of economics as applied to antitrust and government regulation of firms, including comparisons of U.S. practice with that of the European Union and elsewhere.
2.  Understand the perspective provided by economic analysis regarding the interplay between government regulation and firms' decisions regarding such factors as pricing, market entry, and the extent/form of competition.
3.  Identify insights economic analysis provides concerning the creation and implementation of optimal regulation of business.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Advanced Accountancy

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

      Social Studies Education


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C-)


