CNIT 58300 - IT Program And Portfolio Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Program and Portfolio Management deliver benefits to organizations by enhancing current abilities or developing new capabilities for the organization to use. This CNIT Graduate course will provide a detailed understanding of Program and Portfolio Management and its relationship to Project management and will present concepts that promote efficient and effective management and communications among various groups. This course curriculum is consistent with the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PM BOK) and related Standards for Program and Portfolio Management published by the Project Management Institute. Permission of Department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the pros and cons in intelligent discourse, of the differences between portfolio, program and project management.
2.  Understand and articulate the importance of project governance within the company and associated portfolio, program, and project processes.
3.  Understand the possible compositions and value of the Project Management Office (PMO) and strategies for implementation.
4.  Understand and discuss in intelligent discourse the importance of project planning, change management and communication within the company to foster Project, Program and Portfolio management success.
5.  Discuss, in intelligent discourse, the role corporate politics and negotiation skills play in building project budgets and successfully executing the project.
6.  Understand and be able to apply time and cost monitoring and control techniques including Earned Value Management (EVM).



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


