AT 52600 - Aviation Leadership

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is intended for future aviation and aerospace managers. Using foundational readings, case studies, and critical analysis techniques, the contribution of past and contemporary aviation leaders will be reviewed. Permission of department required.


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Aviation & Transp Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform a situational analysis of an aviation enterprise management or leadership challenge and recommend appropriate courses of action.
2.  Form, lead, and support a team in an aeronautical work setting.
3.  Distinguish management roles and actions from leadership roles and actions in both an air carrier organization as well as in a general aviation company.
4.  Apply appropriate theories of leadership to realistic organizational situations such as an aviation manufacturing company, a corporate flight department, or aerospace industry organization.
5.  Identify salient characteristics of individual and organizational behavior; plan courses of action for organizational change.
6.  Identify the competencies of past successful airline leaders; plan a leadership development program for an individual leader in a current aeronautical position.
7.  Determine the viability and sustainability of vision strategies as they relate to activities such as flight training schools, fixed-base operator, or airport administration.
8.  Recognize global cultural differences and assess the impact of those differences on appropriate leadership styles and organizational change initiatives in selected emerging aeronautical enterprises. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


