MGMT 42110 - Marketing Analytics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covers essential decision models and strategic metrics that form the cornerstone of marketing analytics. Using the insight gained in the course, students can predict the outcome of marketing plans to boost return on marketing investment (ROMI). The course emphasizes hands-on learning so students can immediately apply the econometric tools and techniques on a variety of marketing applications. A number of relevant topics are discussed, such as market sizing, forecasting and positioning, promotion budget allocation, and profit maximization. The final piece of this course is guiding the students on how best to craft data-driven presentations to key stakeholders through the use of an experiential learning project provided by an external client. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Enhance the student's knowledge on Advanced Modeling Techniques, such as how and when to apply Logistic Regression, Logit, Multinomial Logit, Ordinal Logit, and Tobit.
2.  Showcase situations across a variety of marketing topics (pricing, sales, advertising, new product development, etc.) where analytical methods can bring greater insight to the marketing practitioner.
3.  Apply the above information to a real-world consulting project and deliver not only managerial insights, but also a data-driven presentation.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BS


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  MGMT 30500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  STAT 35000 Minimum Grade of C-) and Undergraduate level  MGMT 32400 Minimum Grade of C-


