NUR 68100 - DNP Cognate Residency: Direct Practice/Systems Management II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is a second in a series of two courses that applies knowledge and skill to improve healthcare outcomes in systems.  The emphasis is the advanced application of engineering principles to health care including human factors, systems analysis and design, and optimal use of information technology and simulation.  Students assume a leadership role in the application process utilizing skills acquired in DNP Residency: Direct Practice Management I.  Residency activities provide students with opportunities to participate in professional service activities, attend institutes and conferences to expand their area of research or clinical interest and/or develop significant scholarly pursuits.  The focus is on providing leadership in creating change in the healthcare system through analysis, synthesis, critique, and application of evidence-based practice to support accessible high quality, safe, efficient, and effective health care and systematic evaluation of outcomes.  Clinical sites for the DNP Residency may include collaboration with experts in local, state, national, and international healthcare agencies.  Residency activities are selected by the student under the guidance of the faculty advisor and preceptor, DNP program director, and approved by the director of graduate programs in nursing.  Prerequisite: NUR 68700.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Due to the individualization of this course, the student and faculty member outline specific objectives to meet the course objectives, activities and deliverables that will be completed at the end of this course.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


