BIOL 11100 - Fundamentals Of Biology II

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is designed primarily to provide an introduction to the principles of biology for students in agriculture and health sciences. Continuation of BIOL 11000. Principles of biology, focusing on cell structure and function, molecular biology, and genetics.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Practice Study Observation, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, UC-Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
3.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society. 
4.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.   
5.  Students demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology. 
6.  Students will understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding. 
7.  Students will be familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism. 
8.  Students will understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism. 
9.  Students will understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes. 
10.  Graduates will understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes. 
11.  Graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels.
12.  Students demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
13.  Students who complete the Biology Education program will know the general teaching skills expected of a secondary biology teacher, including unit planning, classroom management and instructional techniques. 
14.  Students who complete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions. 
15.  Students who compete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the principles governing the development of multi-cellular animals and plants. 
16.  Students will understand ways in which organisms interact ecologically with each other and their environment. 
17.  Students will understand how evolutionary forces influence organisms to produce adaptations. 
18.  Students can extend basic ecological principles to species and ecosystem conservation. 
19.  Students will learn to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
20.  Students will use and understand the scientific method, including how to generate hypotheses and predications, develop an experimental design, collect data, statistically analyze data, and interpret results. 
21.  Demonstrate an understanding of concepts and theories of genetics. 
22.  Students will acquire knowledge of disease-causing microorganisms that includes an understanding of humoral, cell-mediated and non-specific immune responses, as well as the molecular basis for bacterial and viral pathogenesis. 
23.  Students will be able to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
24.  Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of the scientific method including hypothesis generation and testing, data collection, analysis, and interpretation. 
25.  Students will demonstrate an understanding of prokaryotic cell structure and the major physiological processes of microorganisms that are critical for metabolism, function, and utilization of ecological niches.
26.  Students will demonstrate an in depth knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level. 
27.  Students will demonstrate the ability to measure dynamic changes in living organisms, tissues, and cells. 





Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BIOL 11000 Minimum Grade of D-


