EDCI 55950 - Engineering And Technology Design Practicum

Credit Hours: 3.00.  EPICS is a service-learning design course in which teams of students from across campus work together on long-term projects that benefit the community. Project work centers around the engineering, technology, and computing needs of a community partner, but interdisciplinary team interaction is an integral element for project success. Students may participate in EPICS multiple semesters and participation for multiple consecutive semesters on a project team is encouraged. Teams are composed for first-year students through seniors. Most EPICS projects last at least one year, though partnership with the community organization continues for several years. Projects are intended to solve real problems, are defined in partnership with their community partners, and span the complete design process cycle [problem identification - specific development - conceptual design - detailed design - delivery - service/maintenance - retirement]. You receive academic credit for participation in EPICS. How academic credits are applied to your major depends on your degree program and is determined by your department and/or advisor.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understand design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Be aware of the customer.
5.  Function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Communicate effectively both orally and written with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Be aware of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Have an appreciation of the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  EDCI 55850 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


