BCM 38501 - Soils In Construction

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is a study of the properties of soils as related to construction. Students will be introduced to soil testing and classification, subsurface soil investigation, soil compaction and stabilization, stress distribution in soil, strength, strength of soil, soil consolidation and related structure settlement. Other topics include earth pressure on retaining structures, stability analysis of slopes, and productivity/cost of earthmoving equipment.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Lab 1 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Construction Mgmt Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Introduce students to origin and composition of soils.
2.  Identify soil types, structures, and properties related to construction.
3.  Conduct soil sieve test, calculate soil particle size distribution, and develop soil gradation curves.
4.  Measure soil plasticity, liquid limit, and plastic limit.
5.  Classify soils using standard classification systems.
6.  Determine soil's maximum dry density and optimum moisture content and assure compaction quality and efficiency.
7.  Choose appropriate equipment for effective soil compaction.
8.  Explain soil hydraulic properties, permeability, capillarity and related foundation frost damages.
9.  Study earth stress, retaining wall pressure, and slope stability.
10.  Illustrate the principles of soil settlement, compressibility and consolidation.
11.  Present the methods and procedures for construction site investigation of soils and subsurface conditions.
12.  Analyze and use geotechnical reports.
13.  Discuss the productivity and costs of earthmoving equipment.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Building Const Mgmt Tech

      Construction Management


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BCM 28500 Minimum Grade of C-


