CE 31100 - Architectural Engineering

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces energy efficiency, thermal comfort, indoor environmental quality and green building design concepts. The course covers engineering fundamentals required for the design and analysis of building systems such as thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, heat and mass transfer, light and sound transmission. The course presents engineering principles and selected applications related to hydrothermal analysis of building enclosures, air conditioning processes in heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems, building illumination, and building acoustics.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and analyze the characteristics of building environmental loads, building construction, and building operations as they define the requirements for a comfortable and healthy indoor environment. 
2.  Demonstrate knowledge of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics, heat and mass transfer, photometric quantities and sound transmission for use in building design.
3.  Identify, formulate and solve realistic Architectural Engineering problems related to hygrothermal analysis of  building enclosures, air conditioning processes in Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning Systems, pipe and duct flow, building illumination and building acoustics. 
4.  Demonstarte an understanding of building systems integration to achieve efficient operation. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ME 20000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ME 30500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CE 21101 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  EEE 38000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ABE 21000 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  CE 34000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  ME 30900 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


