MGMT 53100 - Government/Not-For-Profit Accounting

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to provide students with a solid understanding of the financial reporting and accounting principles used in the preparation of governmental and not-for-profit entities. Topics include, but are not limited to, fund accounting, city government accounting, state government accounting, special funds, budgetary accounting for the general and special revenue funds, fiduciary funds and government-wide statements, university accounting,  accounting for community foundations, not-for-profit accounting, and auditing not-for-profit entities. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Develop analytical and quantitative skills to analyze and formulate business decisions: Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of generally accepted accounting Principles for government and not-for-profit entities and how accounting information is used in decision-making for those organizations through the completion of multiple projects. 
2. Become familiar with the ethical issues that individuals face in organizations: Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of ethics in reporting through team projects that analyze a government or not-for-profit's accounting system. They will also be able to demonstrate their understanding of how to properly account for fiduciary (trust) funds. 
3. Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate oral and written communication skills through class participation and the writing and presentation of team projects.  
4. Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environmental: Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present team projects. 
5. Achieve their understanding of generally accepted accounting principles for government and not-for-profit entities through team projects and examination(s). 




Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 53100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
35100


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



