EDCI 36502 - Teaching Science Through Design In Grades 3-6

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The aim of this course is to prepare students to teach science, engineering, and computational thinking with grade 3-6 learners by building on existing pedagogical and subject matter knowledge in science. Students will engage in science and engineering learning experiences; identify and analyze children's ideas and background experiences; and examine instructional strategies for leveraging students' sense making. Using this knowledge, students will plan for and implement standards-based lessons, reflecting on the strengths and areas of improvement of their instruction for grade 3 through 6 learners. At least 9 credits of science content courses are required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  List and contrast current models of science teaching and learning.
2.  Demonstrate competence in the use of various learner-centered pedagogical strategies.
3.  Develop collaborative, inquiry based, cross-cultural, learner centered unit plans.
4.  Demonstrate competence in assessing student learning and in developing plans of action to meet student's needs.
5.  Implement pro-active strategies to establish a safe classroom environment in which all students are encouraged to participate and express their views.
6.  Demonstrate competence in the use of instructional technologies to enhance student learning.
7.  Demonstrate competence in integrating science, technology, engineering practices and mathematics (STEM) across the curriculum to address culturally and socially relevant issues.
8.  Demonstrate competence in developing unit plans that engage children in the use of the engineering design process to address culturally and socially relevant issues.
9.  Demonstrate competence in developing activities that promote children's computational thinking.
10.  Explain how his/her personal philosophy of teaching and learning contrasts with the College of Education's mission: "We are committed to social justice and the education of all the children of all the people - especially in the area of P-12 STEM education."
11.  Actively participate in discussions regarding curriculum development and implementation designed to address the needs of culturally diverse learners.
12.  Present and defend their ideas about the nature of science and engineering.
13.  Identify grades 3-6 children's ideas and abilities to engage in science and engineering practices through interview.
14.  Use questions to uncover and make sense of students' thinking and understanding through lesson planning and instruction.
15.  Gain skills in assessing, evaluating, and responding to the needs of grades 3-6 diverse learners (developmental level, ability, ethnicity, gender) in science and engineering.
16.  Recognize and list science and engineering practices; core disciplinary ideas; and cross cutting concepts and their relation to three dimensional learning in a grade appropriate lesson plan.
17.  Plan instruction based on design principles and teaching for understanding for all learners using elements of three-dimensional learning.
18.  Compare and contrast a variety of resources for teaching science and engineering, including nationally recognized elementary kit-based curriculum; science and engineering education lesson plan electronic databases, and local resources.
19.  Reflect upon your teaching, noting areas of strength and areas for improvement.






Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Elementary Education

      Special Education

      Special Ed/Elem Education


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDCI 36501 Minimum Grade of D-


