ASEC 52000 - Foundations Of Agricultural Education, Extension, And Communication

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Critical analysis of the historical and philosophical assumptions, current strategic intents and relevant policies underpinning the discipline of agricultural education - inclusive of Extension education and agricultural communication - and project the impact existing economic, social and political issues may have in this field in the next 15 to 25 years. Instructor permission required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain how social and economic conditions in the 19th century helped shape AEEC.
2.  Identify and discuss how key events, leaders, driving forces, and policies (i.e., legislation) that shaped AEEC.
3.  Compare and contrast similarities and differences among school-based agricultural education, non-formal (Extension) education, and agricultural communication regarding their purpose, development as a field, structure and stakeholders.
4.  Discuss the philosophies of pragmatism, behaviorism, and constructivism, and how these philosophical assumptions influenced the policies and practices of AEEC.
5.  Identify leaders and what role they played in helping shape AEEC.
6.  Discuss how principles of community-based education support the development of human, cultural and social capital in AEEC.
7.  Examine current trends regarding existing organizational structures, enrollment, funding, and collaborative partners of AEEC, and project how current social and economic conditions in the 21st century may impact AEEC.
8.  Discuss contemporary leadership and program models for the next 25 years, and analyze visions in AEEC are positioned to address grand challenges visions in AEEC.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


