TLI 52300 - Quality Management, Audits And Inspections

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides advanced topics in quality management and business improvement methods that apply to the pharmaceutical industry. Emphasis will be placed on specific issues of industry, audits, and inspections, as well as the successful selection and presentation of business and quality improvement projects to produce compliance and competitive advantage. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Technology Ldrshp & Innovatn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Obtain and apply broad knowledge of FDA and international law, regulations, and guidance documents for at least one category of medical products (drugs, biological products, devices).
2.  Ability to meld theory and practice in regulatory affairs.
3.  Examine issues rationally, logically, and coherently; and acquire, evaluate, and synthesize information and knowledge relevant to an identified problem; and make sound decisions in both familiar and unfamiliar contexts.  
4.  Read, write, speak, listen, and use data, media and computers to send and respond effectively to communication for varied audiences and purposes.
5.  Demonstrate sensitivity to and facility with personal values and ethical principles in professional and social contexts.
6.  Recognize the factors that influence regulatory decisions, develop methods to incorporate regulatory trends and practices, and think strategically about product development and marketing.
7.  Examine quality systems and standards and their impact on public safety as well as the reliance on quality by health care providers.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Graduate School

      College of Pharmacy

      Doctor of Pharmacy

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Professional First Year

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


