MGMT 63400 - Business Law For Accountants

Credit Hours: 2.00. This course is designed to help prepare students for their professional careers by familiarizing them with aspects of the law that are directly relevant to the practice of accounting. These topics are not only at work every day in business but are also tested on professional examinations such as the Uniform Certified Public Accounting (CPA) Exam. Specific topics include, but are not limited to, contract law, relevant provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, bankruptcy, and the legal liability of accountants. The course will be taught through a mixture of lectures and class discussions. Students are expected to come to class having completed the assigned readings and ready to  participate in class discussions. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Achieve depth of understanding and application of essential content in business functional areas: Students will be able to demonstrate the ability to apply legal rules and principles to business transactions and the accounting for them.
2.  Become familiar with the ethical issues that individuals face in organizations: Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of business ethics and social responsibility as it relates to the legal aspects of business transactions and reporting. 
3.  Develop awareness and understanding of global issues relating to financial reporting, tax accounting and business decisions: Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of international business law and cyber law, both of which affect financial reporting and tax accounting. 
4.  Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral communication skills through class participation and effective written communication skills through the development and writing of a research paper.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Degrees:      

      Master of Science

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Accounting


