NUR 69060 - Innovative Care/Innovations In Healthcare Delivery

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Historical, ethical, financial, and social influences on contemporary innovations in healthcare practices and delivery systems are analyzed. The genesis and diffusion of both micro- and macro-level innovations are reconstructed with the use of theories, organizational and transdisciplinary factors, and effective processes. Quality of care issues are synthesized utilizing innovations in care and health delivery systems as a framework. With innovative care and innovations in healthcare delivery systems as frameworks, quality of care issues are appraised. Selected exemplars of successful innovations, with an emphasis on strategies to evaluate dissemination and impact, are analyzed. Admission to the Nursing PhD program or instructor permission. This is one of the first courses taken by PhD students and may be open to graduate students outside the School of Nursing with permission from the instructor. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge of innovative care and innovation in healthcare delivery systems through discourse in written and oral assignments.
2.  Use theories related to innovation in research design and methods.
3.  Understand innovation within an organizational context, citing barriers and facilities to the impact of innovation.
4.  Demonstrate use of strategies to optimize the impact of innovation in both the micro-level and macro-level contexts and in healthcare settings.
5.  Use language that accurately describes the links between discovery and innovation.
6.  Synthesize literature to critique innovations and their development across time.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


