MGMT 43700 - Social Media Marketing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is to equip students with tools and develop marketing skills required to address current marketing problems. The approach is to learn software for conducting basic scraping on social media sites to understand user behavior and sentiment. In addition, students will interact with local businesses offsite to create short video ads to be posted on social media sites. By doing so, students will also see how their postings gathered user behavior and sentiments. The deliverables for this project will be a slide presentation (no more than 10 pages, excluding appendices) to showcase what students have learned. This may be included as a part of students' resume' to show their potential employers. These are some of the basic knowledge of useful skills in web crawling, data mining, and consumer analyses along with their video ads that were posted on social media sites. Students may leverage their portfolio when seeking entry/junior level marketing positions. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn how to collect and analyze consumer behavior and sentiment from social media platforms.
2.  Gain experience in understanding online consumer search terms and related consumer trends.
3.  Learn to become a marketing manager who would monitor competitors' products and pricing actions on the online space.
4.  Exposed to the challenges of recent online platforms where websites use dynamic content to increase user interactivities.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 42710 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 42110 Minimum Grade of C-


