MGMT 44362 - Leadership & Organizational Change

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Economic growth and prosperity requires that organizations have effective leaders. Fortunately, we can learn how to be better leaders. There is an impressive body of research about leadership theory and practice. Cases reflecting leader successes and failures can be used to improve leadership and avoid pitfalls. Leadership can be invigorating, challenging, and rewarding. It can also be stressful and attract criticism.  In this course, we will consider a multitude of perspectives on leadership theory and practice. We will consider leadership in the context of organizational change. However, the principles of ethics and integrity will not be subject to change as they are fundamental to effective leadership.  



    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Foster an excitement and interest in effective leadership.
2.  Consider the broad range of perspectives on leadership theory and practice.
3.  Develop leadership skills and potential.






Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Advanced Accountancy

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Human Resource Development

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Interdisciplinary

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufacturing Mgmt

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  OBHR 33000 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  MGMT 44428 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 44301 Minimum Grade of C-)


