HTM 43600 - Customer-Centric Service Design And Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course explores and informs the design, management, and innovation strategies of customer-centric firms through the theoretical and empirical services management literature. The course uses conceptual frameworks and cases from a variety of industry sectors.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and apply basic service management principles.
2.  Identify strategies that satisfy both customer needs and business performance.
3.  Create a service blueprint and use it to inform service design or redesign.
4.  Explain how service management differs from customer service.
5.  Perform a service audit.
6.  Design service strategies.
7.  Describe how to develop a service centric culture.
8.  Develop strategies that optimize tangible and intangible returns on service excellence.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Financial Counseling& Planning

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Retail Management

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Selling & Sales Management

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CSR 28200 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  HTM 31200 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  OBHR 33000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


