CE 41300 - Building Envelope Design And Thermal Loads

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course discusses the basic thermal processes in buildings and presents comprehensive methods for thermal design of envelope assemblies in commercial and residential buildings. The first part of the course includes steady-state transient conduction through envelope assemblies, convection and radiation heat transfer in buildings, solar radiation and solar gains, thermal performance of windows, internal gains, ventilation and infiltration. The second part of the course considers surface and room energy balance equations and presents analytical and computational models for calculation of hourly heating and cooling loads throughout the year. Climate-based standards, passive solar design, advanced energy guides, and innovative technologies for high performance buildings are discussed. The course also includes a design project on analytical heating/cooling load calculations for a commercial building.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Calculate heat transfer through envelope assemblies for commercial and residential buildings. 
2.  Solve energy balance equations for building surfaces and room air.
3.  Calculate solar and internal gains and predict transient hourly heating and cooling loads for a building throughout the year using analytical and computational models. 
4.  Design building envelopes according to national standards.
5.  Understand principles of passive solar design and the application of innovative envelope technologies.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CE 31100 Minimum Grade of D-


