CPB 88300 - Public Health

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed for senior veterinary students to fulfill their interests in public health and preventive veterinary medicine.  There will be a classroom and field component, focusing on topics including epidemiology, food safety, infectious diseases, environmental health and health communications. Visits to various agencies will complement the course material by offering inside views of the day to day operations of the facilities as well as the career experiences of the employees working in them. Students will also gain field experience in actual or devised research projects that will include activities such as study design, questionnaire development, collecting epidemiologic data, date input, analysis, and interpretation. Students will be asked to design a study, produce an information brochure, and prepare a verbal presentation for elementary school children about topics relating to being safe with your pets. Total clinic hours 129.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Comparative Pathobiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the varied roles veterinarians play in the physical, mental and social well being of people.
2.  Know the state and federal agencies involved in the U.S. public health system.
3.  Use their epidemiological skills to investigate disease outbreaks and critically evaluate epidemiological studies.
4.  Assess disease risks resulting from animal exposure in targeted human populations.
5.  Assess disease risks resulting from food production and drinking water systems.
6.  Understand the role of the veterinarian in biosecurity and responding to animal emergencies resulting from natural or man-made disasters.
7.  Know how to communicate effectively with the public and media.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional


