MGMT 58500 - Information Technology Project Management

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The purpose of this class is to provide students with a basic understanding of the tasks and challenges facing IT and analytics project managers. Students learn about projects, roles and responsibilities of project managers. We start by discussing the skills and approaches commonly used in creating and monitoring project plans and braking complex projects down into manageable segments. We also discuss important areas defined in PMI's PMBOK, like scope, time, cost and quality management. Next we look at how IT projects have traditionally been managed, and move on to the study of agile methods. We go through some of the most important aspects of agile project management, such as user stories, agile teams an agile planning, execution and tracking. In learning these tools and techniques, we take a hands-on approach wherever possible and use project management software, exercises and case studies. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire a good understanding of the most important aspects of general project management such as cost and time management.
2.  Define the essential processes involved in information systems development.
3.  Work effectively on a team to successfully complete team projects.
4.  Understand and explain variou approaches to manage IT projects.
5.  Use project management tools, MS Project and Atlassian Jira.
6.  Explain what agile is and how it is different from waterfall.
7.  Work on a team as a scrum masster or product owner.
8.  Think about and describe how agile could be applied in various contexts.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


