HK 66000 - Diagnostic Imaging In Athletic Training

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course provides students with an intensive study of radiology. Students will understand the types of diagnostic images commonly used in sports medicine, as well as basic interpretive techniques used in radiology. The course will emphasize the systematic approach for diagnostic images and interpretation of various diagnostic reports. Permission of department required. Prerequisite: HK 58000 with B- or better. Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the importance of imaging technology used in musculoskeletal care.
2.  Evaluate the differences and capabilities of radiography, MRI, CT, bone scintigraphy, and ultrasonography.
3.  Understand the importance of communicating with other healthcare providers regarding radiological studies.
4.  Describe a radiological report and evaluate the findings related to a rehabilitative plan of care.
5.  Use terms commonly found in diagnostic radiography, MRI, CT, bone scintigraphy, and ultrasonography.
6.  Summarize the fundamental physical principles of radiography, MRI, CT, bone scintigraphy, and ultrasonography.
7.  Categorize basic positions utilized for radiography.
8.  Identify basic anatomy in routine radiography, MRI, CT, bone scintigraphy, and ultrasonography.
9.  Compare the three types of densities usually seen on a radiograph and their significance.
10.  Discuss the importance of correlating the study with the patient's history and physical exam.
11.  Describe and then compare the different patterns of pathologic processes; including fractures, sprains, strains, effusions, stress reactions, DVT.
12.  Differentiate the genetic anomalies commonly seen on radiographs.
13.  Interpret routine radiographs and identify abnormalities.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


