AT 64000 - Aviation And Aerospace Sustainability

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course explores sustainability as applied to aviation and aerospace industries and agencies, both in the private sector and public sector. Emphasis is placed on understanding aviation and aerospace sustainability academic literature and on connecting the global and national policies that lead to the regulations and practices. Aviation sustainability is comprised of multiple areas of impact such as economic, environmental, operational, and social. Students develop an understanding of existing sustainability assessment frameworks such as GRI that have general sustainability assessments along with specialized aviation industry frameworks. Using a multiple attribute analysis approach, students develop metrics and analyze the potential impact of sustainability initiatives in the aviation and aerospace industry. Prerequisites: STAT 30100 or STAT 31100 or STAT 50100 or STAT 51100 or IT 50700 or an instructor-approved statistical foundations course. Proficiency in statistical foundations is required to understand and evaluate environmental, economic and social sustainability data, information and methods presented in this course.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Aviation & Transp Tech 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Create a well-founded set of metrics for assessing sustainability that consider economic, environmental, social and operational viewpoints.
2.  Evaluate projects or initiatives affecting aviation and aerospace sustainability using multi-attribute analysis techniques.
3.  Collect, assess, organize and present sustainability information.
4.  Demonstrate understanding of sustainability terms, policies, and concepts.
5.  Develop, communicate and defend an analysis of a sustainability initiative in the aviation or aerospace industry.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


