ECON 46100 - Industrial Organization

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines the determinants of firm and market structure and the resulting market performance in imperfectly-competitive markets. Advanced topics include advertising, research and development, imperfectly competitive international markets, and market integration. Emphasis is placed on using theoretical models of firm and industry behavior to explain and analyze real-world examples of firm behavior.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use basic versions of the models economists use to analyse imperfectly competitive markets.
2.  Recognize the results of empirical tests of those models, in the laboratory and using real-world data.
3.  Recognize the implications of these models for public policy toward business competition.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

      Social Studies Education


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of C-)


