ASEC 43120 - Evaluating International Engagement Methods

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Designed for students who have just returned from the Engagement Methods for Int'l Food Security course or have previous experience working with our partners. In order to 1) fully comprehend the impact of the experience and 2) foster true long-term relationships with and service to our partners, it is required to work on our projects when we return. Matt McGregor, Former Exec. Dir. of Timmy Global Health, told us that "it's not really about the trip". It is essential that we accomplish: 1) Closure of trip experiences with partners and contacts - thank you's and complete follow-up; 2) Reflection of Purdue student experiences and personal goals/follow-up actions; 3) Promotion of food insecurity realities and opportunities for support; and 4) Planning, recommendations, and promotion of future service learning courses.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply classroom knowledge and science technologies through extension methodologies to assist partners in addressing their challenges.
2.  Demonstrate intercultural knowledge and effectiveness to successfully communicate, understand, and interact among people with differing assumptions that exist because of ethnic and cultural differences.
3.  Demonstrate critical thinking and evaluation of what is read and heard by using data and reasoning to identify and assess opportunities and develop sound responses to complex problems in a rural international village setting.
4.  Demonstrate the ability to communicate persuasively and while considering audience and purpose in a different cultural setting.
5.  Assess partners' needs, plan, present, and assess educational programs in Haiti.
6.  Demonstrate ability to work constructively as part of a bi-national problem-solving team.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ASEC 43110 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  YDAE 43110 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


