HSCI 56200 - Analytical Toxicology And Pathology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Historically, toxicology has been defined as the study of the adverse effects of xenobiotics. Today, toxicology encompasses much broader areas, including the study of endogenous compounds, physical agents, and even using toxicants as research tools. Basic and introductory toxicology courses cover the principles of toxicant metabolism and target organ toxicity. This course, Analytical Toxicology and Toxicologic Pathology is focused on the research and clinical applications of these principles. Two major areas will be covered: (1) principles of toxicant detection in biological matrices and (2) the assessment of pathological effects caused by toxicant exposure in biological systems. Laboratory sessions associated with each major topic allow students to have hands-on experience in these advanced analytical and pathological technologies. This course provides a unique opportunity for students to learn techniques that research and clinical toxicologists use daily in scientific or clinical laboratories. The course is suitable to both graduate and upper-class undergraduate students who are interested in toxicology, forensic science, veterinary medicine, environmental and occupational health, food toxicity, pharmaceutical drug testing, medical laboratory science, and general human and children's health.  Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Have a basic understanding of how to measure toxicant levels.
2. Have essential knowledge in evaluating histopathological alterations of major organs and tissues upon exposure to typical toxicants.
3. Be able to assess and interpret the adverse effects of toxicants in mammalian systems.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-HSCI 56200 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
56000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



