MGMT 52100 - Brand Management

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course exposes students to the issues and activities in brand management. Topics include developing the brand marketing plan, design and execution of integrated marketing communications, testing, launching, and repositioning of brands, creating and managing brand equity, formulating strategies for leveraging and defending brands, product line and category management. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the components of a firm's brand equity, based on weekly discussions of "Best Practice" cases assigned in the course.  
2.  Demonstrate an understanding of how a firm formulates, develops, and executes a firm's branding strategy.  
3.  Demonstrate an understanding of the key components of a firm's branding strategy.  
4.  Develop an understanding of how a firm manages the issues of building brand equity, measuring brand equity, and understanding how to grow a firm's brands.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-CPOSTB

      Economics-MA Teaching

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-PHD

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MS

      Management-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Economics-CPOSTB

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 52100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
62000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



