EDPS 55200 - Basic Concepts Of Applied Behavior Analysis

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is the first in a sequence of courses for the Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate Program. This course, in combination with the other courses, will provide fundamental knowledge and experiences for understanding Applied Behavior Analysis principles, concepts, and techniques, including observational analysis, data-based instruction, and social validity to increase students' social and task related behavior. Students learn procedures to increase or decrease target behavior, to facilitate behavior maintenance and generalization, and to evaluate effectiveness of instruction. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the goals of behavior analysis as a science (i.e., description, prediction, control) (A-1).
2.  Explain the philosophical assumptions underlying the science of behavior analysis (e.g., selectionism, determinism, empiricism, parsimony, pragmatism) (A-2).
3.  Describe and explain behavior from the perspective of radical behaviorism (A-3).
4.  Distinguish among behaviorism, the experimental analysis of behavior, applied behavior analysis, and professional practice guided by the science of behavior analysis (A-4).
5.  Describe and define the dimensions of applied behavior analysis (Baer, Wolf, & Risley, 1968) (A-5).
6.  Define and provide examples of behavior, response, and response class (B-1).
7.  Define and provide examples of stimulus and stimulus class (B-2).
8.  Define and provide examples of respondent and operant conditioning (B-3). 
9.  Define and provide examples of positive and negative reinforcement contingencies (B-4).
10.  Define and provide examples of schedules of reinforcement (B-5).
11.  Define and provide examples of positive and negative punishment contingencies (B-6).
12.  Define and provide examples of automatic and socially mediated contingencies (B-7).
13.  Define and provide examples of unconditioned, conditioned, and generalized reinforcers and punishers (B-8).
14.  Define and provide examples of operant extinction (B-9).
15.  Define and provide examples of stimulus control (B-10).
16.  Define and provide examples of discrimination, generalization, and maintenance (B-11).
17.  Define and provide examples of motivating operations (B-12).
18.  Define and provide examples of rule-governed and contingency-shaped behavior (B-13).
19.  Define and provide examples of the verbal operants (B-14).
20.  Define and provide examples of derived stimulus relations (B-15).



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Applied Behavior Analysis


