BIOL 20300 - Human Anatomy And Physiology

Credit Hours: 4.00.  A survey of normal structure and function of the human organism. The human is treated as an open system with the capacity to transport material, transform energy, and maintain a homeostatic state. The capacities and limitations of the human to cope with changes in the environment are emphasized. All major systems of the human body and their functions are examined in relation to the living organism. Integrated into the study of the human organism are laboratory exercises that emphasize the essentials of human anatomy and physiology. Not available for credit toward graduation for majors in the Department of Biological Sciences.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, UC-Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
3.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact science on society. 
4.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way. 
5.  Students will understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding. 
6.  Cellular Processes: Students will understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism. 
7.  Energy: Students will understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes. 
8.  Scope: Graduates will understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes. 
9.  Scope: Graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher level. 
10. Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
11. Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
12  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society. 
13  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
14  Demonstrate an understanding of concepts and theories of genetics. 
15  Students will demonstrate an in depth knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level. 




