PHIL 57200 - Writing To Argue

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Repeatable twice for a maximum of 9 credits. Writing is a primary mode of communication in philosophy. This course aims to prepare students for the writing demands of philosophy by having students develop their ability to analyze, interpret, and critique philosophical arguments through written works and, in the process, construct their own philosophical arguments. Students will also learn writing processes that will aid their ability to effectively and clearly compose philosophical arguments, including outlining, drafting, and editing. Finally, the class will also pay attention to genre and rhetorical features of philosophical discourse, such as how philosophers enact criticism and write introductions to research papers. All the while, students will continue improving their writing and speaking skills in the English language through specifically designed language learning components for non-native English speakers. Students can use their course paper as a draft of a writing sample for PhD programs. Students are also supported in their regular philosophy courses. This course is linked to one or more 500+ level philosophy seminars that students in this course are enrolled in. Reading materials, writing activities, and projects for the course are designed to complement tasks and projects required in the linked philosophy seminar.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times for a maximum of 9 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply analytical techniques to analyze and interpret philosophical arguments in written composition.
2.  Critique philosophical arguments in written composition.
3.  Apply steps in the writing process, including outlining, drafting, revising, and editing.
4.  Compose an argumentative research paper that responds to a current philosophical issue.
5.  Formulate constructive feedback to others and revise your written assignments based upon feedback.
6.  Apply genre and rhetorical features of philosophical discourse to one's writing, including: Rhetorical practices and linguistic devices used to criticize arguments and genre conventions for writing introductions, including how to create a research space for your argument.
7.  Improve speaking skills, including circumlocution, pronunciation, attention to body language, affect, and more, in classroom discussions and formal presentations.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-PHIL 56200 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
PHIL
56200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



