PUBH 54300 - Physical Activity And Public Health

Credit Hours: 3.00.  In this course students will be exposed to epidemiological, behavioral, and public health issues relevant to effective promotion of physical activity. The course is appropriate for students training to be practitioners or researchers from a range of disciplines including exercise science, nutrition, psychology, and public health. Major topic areas will include physical activity epidemiology, determinants of physical activity in youth and adults, and current evidence for physical activity interventions ranging from individual, behavioral strategies, to environmental or policy approaches. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Differentiate between various definitions of physical activity, exercise, and physical fitness.
2.  Describe and identify strengths and weaknesses of different approaches used to measure physical activity, including surveys, and objective methods using pedometers and accelerometers.
3.  Discuss epidemiological evidence on relationships between physical activity and all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, cancers, diabetes, obesity, and overweight.
4.  Describe and critically evaluate the physical activity determinants literature in children, youth, and adults, and the current determinants research focus in these populations.
5.  Describe and critically evaluate physical activity intervention literature, including currently recommended approaches for children, youth, and adults (e.g., based on the Community Guide to P{Preventive Services).



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


