CNIT 33100 - Game Development III: Environment Modeling For Games

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (CGT 34500) This course teaches the techniques and principles needed to create realistic three-dimensional virtual environments in game engines. The course will examine the principles of physics that determine how light propagates through the world and is eventually perceived by a human eye. Global illumination techniques that approximate these principles are described, followed by an in-depth examination of how game engines then approximate these solutions in order to create virtual environments that can run at real-time frame rates.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Implement realistic, aesthetically pleasing, 3D virtual environments within a game engine that correctly/plausibly adheres to physical principles of light,, shadow, and reflection.
2.  Implement lighting, reflectance, and scattering in a virtual scene such that it conveys a particular mood or message.
3.  Identify and articulate the physical process that determine the appearance of real physical objects as sensed by the human visual perception system.
4.  Articulate the processes and concepts behind global illumination, including (but not limited to) light propagation, reflectance, scattering, and sampling.
5.  Articulate and implement the ways that global illumination techniques are approximated by game engines.
6.  Demonstrate mastery of in-engine visualization tools that assess run-time performance and thus predict run-time performance of a given virtual environment.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Info Tech-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CNIT 23200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CGT 25500 Minimum Grade of C-


