HDFS 41200 - Music And Movement In Preschool And Primary Grades

Credit Hours: 2.00. This course focuses on music and movement in preschool and primary grade classrooms.  It covers the developmental foundation and curriculum applications of music and movement activities and includes ways to plan, implement and evaluate developmentally appropriate music and movement instruction for children with and without disabilities and children who are learning English. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Describe principles of developmentally appropriate early childhood education and intervention as they relate to music and movement in early childhood and primary grades.
2. Demonstrate an understanding of children's development of creative expression through music and movement.
3. Plan, implement, and evaluate developmentally appropriate visual music and movement instruction, including responding to the needs of diverse learners.
4. Demonstrate an understanding of Indiana State Standards for Physical Education and Health and Music for children from birth-3rd grade.
        (www.doe.in.gov/primetime/foundations.html and http://dc.doe.in.gov/Standards/AcademicStandards/index.shtml)
5. Demonstrate the dispositions and skills of a developing early childhood teacher, as described in this syllabus and in the practicum evaluation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Corequisites: 

HDFS 31000


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


