EDPS 56500 - Math Curricula For Learners With Exceptionalities

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will explore research-supported general and specialized math curricula to prepare candidates to design and/or adapt math lessons and instructional materials to meet the math needs of students with exceptionalities.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply principles of UDL when selecting, adapting, and modifying math assessments to accommodate student(s) with exceptionalities, including students who are nonverbal, have intense intervention needs, or are English Learners.
2.  Evaluate research-supported math instructional strategies and materials appropriate to the strength, needs, and characteristics of students with exceptionalities.
3.  Apply strategies to work effectively with general education teachers and support staff to provide services that incorporate differentiated instruction, transition assessments, and assistive technology that facilitate students' math learning and the students' learning environment.
4.  Create math lesson plans, based on national, state and/or local math curricula standards, and the scope of sequence of grade-level/chronologically-aged appropriate general education math curriculum that incorporate UDL, research-supported math instructional strategies and materials, and provide meaning-filled math learning opportunities that facilitate student's ability to make connections (e.g., learning mathematics in the context of cooking and art).
5.  Create math lesson plans that incorporate UDL and apply research-supported strategies to provide specially designed mathematics instruction, including strategies for problems and meaning-filled math learning opportunities that facilitate students' ability to make connections (e.g., learning mathematics in the context of cooking and art). 
6.  Evaluate math instruction, monitor progress, and make instructional changes to support students' math learning.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


