CGT 52000 - Computer Graphics Programming

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides a working knowledge of computer graphics programming using OpenGL and C++. OpenGL is the platform independent industrial standard APL and the leading edge technology for computer graphics application design. It has been used in the gaming industry, as well as in research and for scientific visualizations. The course focuses on creating real-time and interactive applications and is structured into several blocks; OpenGL introduction, modeling, texturing, transformations, lighting, and interactive application design. Students will develop various applications through the course focusing different aspects of computer graphics programming.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the OpenGL pipeline and the OpenGL API.
2.  Understand and actively apply modeling techniques such as surface of revolution, extruded surface, polygonal mesh simplification, implicit surface 
       modeling and generation, marching cubes, etc.
3.  Understand and actively apply modeling and viewing transformations, hierarchies, object, and scene and object manipulations.
4.  Understand and actively apply Phong illumination model to surfaces.
5.  Understand and actively apply texturing, 2D image manipulation, transfer functions, mip-mapping, texture compression, transparency.
6.  Understand and actively apply basic interaction techniques such as picking, object manipulation and editing, scene walkthrough, flying, etc.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CGT 51100 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CGT
51100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



