ENE 50300 - Engineering Education Inquiry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is conceived as a bridge between beginning graduate students' knowledge of technical research and modes of inquiry appropriate to the new field of engineering education. It is designed as the entryway to required research method courses taken as part of the students' plan of study. By the end of this survey course, students will be able to critique research in terms of the quality of the authors' argument based on their chain of reasoning, and will recognize that the articulation of a research question, the significance of the question, the choice of methods in regards to the research goals, and the transparency of the explanation of the methodology are all the parts of the chain of reasoning. Permission of instructor required.  Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Engineering Educ 

Department: Engineering Education 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Provides a pathway into the discipline that characterizes the diversity of approaches to engineering education research and research topics.
2.  Create opportunities to discuss the need for rigorous engineering education research.
3.  Develop critical understanding of relationships between research problem, method, and design.
4.  Foster community development and collaborative efforts among students and engineering education researchers.
5.  Help students identify conceptual hurdles and individual pathways into research activities.
6.  Support students' identity development as an engineering education researcher.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Engineering Educ

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


