HK 22200 - Foundations For The Health And Fitness Professional

Credit Hours: Designed to introduce the emerging Health and Fitness professional to current trends in health and physical activity, and provide effective hands-on methodology for implementation of physical activity and exercise in different settings. Students will be able to identify the role of a clinician, coach, trainer, etc. Students will obtain skills in client consultation, program design and strategies for implementing programs to the general population. Students will also be introduced to the skills and knowledge required for working with clinical populations. This course is designed to help students prepare for future clinical practice and certification. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Review current national health and physical activity status, guidelines, and implications.
2.  Learn basic health screenings and fitness assessments.
3.  Discover effective interaction and consultation skills with patients/clients in different settings.
4.  Establish a knowledge base for basic cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular conditioning exercise prescription.
5.  Assess, instruct, evaluate, and apply various exercise techniques.
6.  Develop comprehensive exercise programs for general population and begin developing a working framework to modify exercise programs for clinical population.
7.  Establish and practice basic instruction /coaching skills to implement as a clinician.
8.  Obtain knowledge and skills related to methodologies and practices for alter professional application.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BIOL 20300 Minimum Grade of D-


