HTM 34100 - Operations Control And Analysis In The Hospitality Industry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Applications of the control process and quantitative analysis to effectively manage an efficient and profitable hospitality business. The emphasis is on planning budgets, controlling operational activities, and evaluating performance.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the importance of control process to the success of an operation.
2.  Describe behavior of costs and evaluate their effects on the operating income in the hospitality industry.
3.  Analyze and interpret financial statements.
4.  Establish appropriate cost standards and procedures in each state of the product cycle.
5.  Construct a labor schedule that will satisfy customer demand, meet employee requests, and keep labor cost down.
6.  Apply regression, moving average, and exponential smoothing to forecasting revenue and customer counts.
7.  Identify and eliminate excessive food and beverage costs and describe how to eliminate them.
8.  Develop an operating budget based on revenue and expense forecasts.
9.  Apply revenue management concepts to create demand and maximize revenue for the given demand in restaurants.
10.  Prepare visual representations of operational and financial data.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HTM 24100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  TCEM 24100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 20100 Minimum Grade of C-) and Undergraduate level  HTM 31200 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  HTM 25500 Minimum Grade of C-


