CE 51300 - Lighting In Buildings

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on the design of illumination systems in buildings (electric and natural lighting) in order to achieve energy efficiency and visual comfort. The first part of the course includes analytical lighting calculation techniques, visual perception, radiative transfer, lamp characteristics, electric lighting system design and control for calculation of required indoor  illuminance levels. The second part of the course covers daylighting (natural lighting) systems, including state-of-the-art daylighting prediction models as well as design and control of such devices and advanced metrics. The course also has a lab section, in which the students learn how to work with lighting and daylighting tools and build their own computational transient lighting models in open programming languages, in order to design illumination systems and predict electricity consumption and potential energy savings.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand fundamental illumination concepts.
2.  Design and assess the performance of electric and natural lighting systems in buildings.
3.  Calculate fundamental illuminance, non-point sources, radiant energy, lamp types, lighting controls, interior lighting design, daylight prediction models, optical properties of windows, advanced metrics and shading devices. 
4.  Build and solve lighting and daylighting models using advanced software and programming techniques to design lighting systems and calculate energy savings from the use of natural light and lighting controls. 
5.  Design a project, submit a project report and make an oral presentation (only individual projects are allowed). The project themes cover a wide variety of lighting/daylighting design and control such as: daylighting and lighting design of commercial buildings, measurements/monitoring of lighting levels in laboratory settings, prediction of potentional energy savings, impact of shading design and control, and advanced dayligthing system modeling. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      Graduate School

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Graduate

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CE 51300 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CE
41300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



