HK 39900 - Internship In Athletic Training

Credit Hours: 0.00 to 3.00.  Under supervision of a certified athletic trainer, students will be provided the opportunity to practice those skills required of an athletic trainer through the course of a clinical internship experience. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Summer.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Internship, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply current knowledge, theory, clinical judgement, and the patient’s values and perspective in patient management.
2.  Demonstrate the patient’s need for further examination or consultation by an athletic trainer or referral to another health care professional.
3.  Perform an athletic training examination using evidence-based tests and measures.
4.  Evaluate data from the patient examination to make clinical judgements.
5.  Determine a diagnosis and prognosis that guides future patient management.
6.  Establish an athletic training plan of care that is safe, effective, patient-centered, and evidence-based.
7.  Perform an athletic training intervention in a competent manner.
8.  Educate others using relevant and effective teaching methods.
9.  Produce quality documentation in a timely manner to support the delivery of athletic training services.
10.  Collect and analyzes data from selected outcome measures in a manner that supports accurate analysis of individual and patient group outcomes.
11.  Participate in the financial management of athletic training consistent with regulatory, legal, and facility guidelines.
12.  Fit and apply prophylactic protective equipment to a patient, such as shoulder pads, helmet, custom orthoplast splints, etc. in accordance with established manufacturers’ guidelines to prevent injury.
13.  Fit and apply standard protective equipment to a patient, such as crutches, cane, pneumatic walking boot, ankle braces, etc. in accordance with established manufacturers’ guidelines following an injury.
14.  Apply upper and lower extremity taping and wrapping procedures consistent with biomechanical principles and appropriate for prophylactic treatment or in accordance with stage of healing. 
15.  Demonstrate the ability to evaluate injuries and conditions of the lower quarter, including the foot and ankle, knee, and hip.
16.  Demonstrate the ability to evaluate injuries and conditions of the upper quarter and spine, including the shoulder, elbow and forearm, wrist and fingers, cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and pelvis.
17.  Demonstrate the ability to perform a comprehensive clinical examination of common illnesses and conditions and provides the appropriate referral as indicated.
18.  Locate community-based resources for psychosocial intervention.
19.  Demonstrate appropriate communication skills and use ethnic and cultural sensitivity in communication.
20.  Produce documentation of the patient encounter consistent with contemporary athletic training practice using appropriate terminology and complying with all applicable regulatory standard.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Athletic Training


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HK 10100 Minimum Grade of C-


