HTM 49110 - Wine Sommelier Certification

Credit Hours: 1.00. This course involves the application of previously learned information about the principles of wine including vine growing, wine production, sensory evaluation of wine and practices involved in selection and sales of wine in a foodservice establishment. Students are immersed in the analysis and application of the principles and practices of the Guild of the Master Sommelier Program including Level one Certification.  Student must be at least 21 years of age. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential, Lecture, Practice Study Observation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the historical role of the wine sommelier and the purpose of the International Guild of the Master Sommelier.
2.  Identify the major global wine producing regions in terms of Terroir, wine grape growing  and wine making practices and traditions specifying whether the region is an Old World or New World area.
3.  Identify wine production methods, quality standards, merchandising and pairing with food items for any given wine product.
4.  Identify, describe and apply the Guild of the Master Sommelier Wine Evaluation process to specific wine types.
5.  Identify and describe (given a specific wine producing region)  the quality control system for that region or area and the wine production factors that are controlled through those regulations; a representative wine for each specific wine producing sub-region and/or district of that region, and specific production steps and wine production terms for the wine produced there.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 49111 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  HTM 49112 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


