EPCS 12100 - First Year Participation In EPICS II

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Together, Engineering Projects in Community Service (EPICS) courses create a vertical project track under which students work in multidisciplinary teams on long-term engineering-based design projects.  Projects of at least one year in duration are intended to solve real problems that are defined in consultation with customers from not-for-profit community and educational organizations.  EPCS courses are open to students from all disciplines; each student contributes expertise in his/her academic discipline.  Each team consists of a mix of first-year, sophomores, juniors, and seniors.  Students are encouraged to participate in an EPICS project for two or more semesters.  First-year students participating in EPICS gain insight into the specific project, and more generally, into the design and development process.  Under mentorship from upper-level students and instructors, they perform and report upon design tasks consistent with their level of discipline expertise.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: Engr Prog In Community Service 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Ability to apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understanding of design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Ability to identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Awareness of the customer.
5.  Ability to function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Ability to communicate effectively with audiences with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Awareness of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Appreciation of the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EPCS 11100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  ENGR 13300 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


