FS 48300 - Fermentation Capstone

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The development of value-added fermentation processes requires a complex blend of technoeconomic and market awareness, resource gathering, strain selection and engineering, reactor optimization and operation, product recovery, and project management skills. Keeping these diverse aspects in balance while managing project timelines is essential to successful fermentation process - that is, one that is both technically and economically successful. This course is organized to develop your knowledge of the diverse inputs into design of microbial fermentation and your ability to apply concepts learned in prior fermentation classes to the design of a fermentation process, integrating microbiology, chemistry and processing with basic marketing and business concepts. Students will be organized into project teams for the semester and challenged to design market, develop, prototype, and scale up a new fermentation. Classes will include guest lectures from experts in the fermentation industry and academia. Project teams will be organized and project leaders selected to manage communication between individual groups and the instructors. Final product concepts will be presented to faculty and peers for evaluation.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Department of Food Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply and practically integrate fundamental aspect of fermentation microbiology, chemistry, and processing in the design and development of a new value-added process.
2.  Understand and navigate the challenges associated with scaling up a benchtop fermentation process.
3.  Apply knowledge of factors impacting fermentation design, productivity, yield, and stability to optimize economic value of a process.
4.  Generate an "elevator speech" to spur project investment.
5.  Manage projects in group contexts.
6.  Apply statistical principles in experimental design and assessment of experimental data as it relates to process control and product assessment.
7.  Discuss current topics in fermentation science competently.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Fields of Study (Major, Minor,  or Concentration):

      Fermentation Sciences


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  FS 37200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FS 37300 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FS 40100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FS 40200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FS 44400 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  CHM 32100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  FS 45300 Minimum Grade of D-)


