CHE 55100 - Principles Of Pharmaceutical Engineering

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide engineering, science and pharmacy students with an understanding of the structure, economic and regulatory context, product discovery and development pipeline dynamics, intellectual property considerations and common manufacturing technology of the global pharmaceutical industry.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Chemical Engineering 

Department: Chemical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop a "big picture" view of the Pharmaceutical Industry: its structure and key players; economic and regulatory context; international trends and markets; product pipeline dynamics; current manufacturing technology, strengths and limitations.
2.  Develop a working vocabulary of domain concepts.
3.  Develop an appreciation of technical challenges and opportunities over the life cycle of a pharmaceutical product.
4.  Develop an appreciation of the important role of intellectual property law and the strategies used in maintaining and challenging product patents.
5.  Enhance skills in critical review of topics involving the interplay of technology and economics and in succinctly reporting the most important conclusions in written and oral form.
6.  Acquire the technical and economic context for more detailed follow-up courses in ChE, ME and IPPH.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CHE 55100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
23000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
 )and( 
Course or Test: 
CHM
26100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CHM
26300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



