TLI 45570 - Global Human Resources

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course prepares students to lead human resource activities within a global, technology-driven economy and business environment. Topics include recruitment, training and development processes, cultural issues, policies and regulations within a global and international context. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Technology Ldrshp & Innovatn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the main differences between domestic and international human resources.
2.  Understand the challenges of international business dynamics on international human resources and the procedures for preparing employees for international assignments.
3.  Understand how managing expatriates helps to improve their performance and minimize their business failures in international assignments.
4.  Recognize that training and development of expatriates is a key factor for their success in their assignments.
5.  Understand the complexity of international human resources and the need for staffing international human resources in accordance to the models of business organizations.
6.  Recognize the challenges of repatriation of expatriates and develop the skill to minimize their stress in the parent country organizations.
7.  Recognize the need for balancing the process international human resource adaptation and standardization in the host country.
8.  Identify relevant theories on performance management in the context of international human resources.
9.  Develop intercultural knowledge and competence.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Human Resource Development


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  TLI 25500 Minimum Grade of B


