EDCI 52401 - Teaching Methods In Bilingual Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Application of theory, research, and guiding principles to providing high-quality instruction in dual language and other bilingual education programs in K-12 education. This course includes a specific focus on both program-level design of effective dual language programs, and effective language and literacy instruction for emergent bilingual students leading to high levels of bilingualism, biliteracy, and academic achievement. This course is designed for pre-service and in-service bilingual teachers and administrators, in addition to other teachers of English language learners and researchers interested in high-quality and equitable educational programs for bilingual students. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of the structure and curriculum of dual language bilingual education programs.
2.  Define biliteracy and the key components of the Literacy Squared model.
3.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of effective oral language instruction and the development of metalinguistic skills.
4.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of effective reading instruction across two languages.
5.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of effective writing instruction across two languages.
6.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of effective assessment practices across two languages.
7.  Develop effective lesson plans for bilingual and biliteracy development.
8.  Identify and describe the principles and key aspects of whole school considerations in supporting effective dual language bilingual education programs.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


