HTM 19100 - Sanitation And Health In Foodservice, Lodging, And Tourism

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces students to the foodservice component of the Hospitality and Tourism industry and explores food safety and other health related issues. Application of sanitation principles in restaurants, hospitals, schools, hotels, cruise ships, airlines, and international travel are covered. Students must pass a National Sanitation Certification Examination to receive credit. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the causative agents and characteristics of food-borne illnesses associated with foodservice, hotel, and tourism operations.
2.  Develop a basic understanding of systems and management needed for maintaining safety and quality of food products.
3.  Given information concerning an outbreak of food-borne illness, describe contributing factors and develop a plan to prevent it from reoccurring.
4.  Describe the role and responsibilities of federal and state governments, local regulatory agencies, the foodservice industry, and foodservice managers in promoting and maintaining consumer food safety.
5.  Describe the impact that foodservice operations have on the environment and what they can do to minimize their impact.
6.  Describe additional health issues relevant to the foodservice, lodging and travel industries (i.e. bloodborne pathogens) and how these industries should minimize the spread of illness through their operations.
7.  Describe how to effectively communicate with government agencies and the general public as part of normal operations and during crisis management.
8.  Describe the history and current state of the foodservice industry.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Family & Consumer Science Educ

      Finance

      Foods & Nutrition in Business

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


