ANSC 49400 - Animals And Food Security: International Services Learning

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 4.00. This course prepares students for a service learning international experience and includes the planning of the trip, the actual trip and a reflective learning post-trip class. The course is a partnership between Purdue Animal Sciences, a host university and their students, a local community organization, and an international community development, NGO. The core of the experience is the faculty-led international service learning course where students live and work in villages in a developing country. Students will learn extension methodologies and how to contribute to sustainable projects. Students will be expected to work in bi-national teams across agricultural and community disciplines to not only contribute to the communities served but to apply their classroom knowledge and experience to make a difference in the community. AGEC 43000 (Introduction To World Agricultural Development) is a highly recommended prerequisite. Prerequisites: Multicultural Awareness course (COA list). Permission of instructor required.

    1.000 TO     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Animal Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Professional Preparation: Demonstrate proficiency in the application of the knowledge, skills, technology, extension methodology, and professional conduct of animal sciences. 
2.  Critical Thinking: Demonstrate critical thinking by using data and reasoning to develop sound responses to complex problems in a rural international village setting. 
3.  Communication: Demonstrate the ability to write and speak with effectiveness while considering audience and purpose. 
4.  Teamwork: Demonstrate the ability to work effectively as part of a bi-national problem-solving team. 
5.  Cultural Understanding: Demonstrate actual intercultural skills and knowledge of a range of cultures and an understanding of human values and points of view other than their own. 
6.  Social Science Principles: Demonstrate ability to apply social, economic, political, and environmental principles to serving an international rural village. 
7.  Civic Responsibility: Demonstrate awareness of civic responsibility to community and society at large. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


