HK 49201 - Internship For Exercise And Health

Credit Hours: 9.00.  The internship experience is a valuable opportunity for students to apply the procedures, theories, skills, and techniques they have mastered in the classroom to a professional work experience in the field. The Department of Health & Kinesiology requires that each student in the Clinical Exercise Physiology concentration in the Kinesiology major at Purdue University perform a 400 hour internship experience that meets the expectations of the student, the internship/practicum site, and the University. The internship is to be a culminating experience representative of the degree program and clinical work that provides students the opportunity to acquire invaluable work experience in the field outside of the academic setting. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    9.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Full-Time Privileges, Internship, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge, skills, and abilities to be applied through the practicum experience within the areas of: a) Administration, b) Activity Leadership, c) Supervising Programs, d) Agency Operations.
2.  Demonstrate professional and ethical decision making skills, verbal and written communication skills, and an ability to work with various needs of diverse populations.
3.  Demonstrate professional relationships that present themselves as part of the organization with staff and clientele throughout their practicum experience.
4.  Assess, plan, implement, and evaluate a fitness related major project within the practicum site.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HK 26900 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HK 41100 Minimum Grade of D-


