NUR 42001 - Transition To Professional Nursing Practice

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course challenges students to use critical thinking and clinical reasoning to identify, prioritize and evaluate nursing interventions for clients with complex healthcare issues. Students interact with members of the healthcare team and clinical faculty to practice effective leadership, delegation and supervision of nursing students in clinical environments. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply sound clinical judgment, professional behavior, communication, collaboration and integration of best practice in clinical settings. Demonstrate/apply professional behavior, communication, collaboration and sound clinical judgment by integrating best practice in clinical settings.
2.  Utilize the nursing process when caring for clients with complex healthcare needs.
3.  Articulate the value of pursuing practice excellence, life-long learning, patient advocacy and engagement in professional nursing practice.
4.  Demonstrate effective leadership, delegation and supervision when collaborating with members of the healthcare team.
5.  Assume personal responsibility for professional growth.
6.  Analyze system barriers that effect quality healthcare delivery in patients affected by complex conditions.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 31401 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31501 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31701 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31801 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C


