TECH 33000 - Technology And The Global Society

Credit Hours: 3.00. The course examines the interplay of technology, globalization, intercultural awareness, political reforms, education, religion, gender roles, and history to allow students to gain insight into leading / enabling technology adoption and global business practices to address global markets and global challenges in their future professions.. Students will explore concepts and issues related to outsourcing; global competitiveness; intercultural communications; contemporary issues; cultural differences such as inequality, security, sustainability, and quality of life; and the ethical dilemmas that often emerge as a result of the impact of technology.  This course will expose students to strategic and operational management topics that support decision making in global expansion of Business and Technology. This course is designed to provide knowledge and a higher level understanding of the principles behind globalization of technology and its regional and global markets.  The course utilizes formal assessment instruments and intercultural activities to aid students in the development of increased intercultural capacity. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Lecture 1 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
-1.  Identify and describe cultural norms, interactions, gender roles, societal ethics, religions, and examine their potential impacts on business and industry.
2.  Demonstrate familiarity with international laws (such as import/export controls) and analyze their effects on information technology, cyber security, and regulating global business operations. 
3.  Predict the positive and negative impacts of social media and global IT on individual perceptions and daily business operations.
4.  Summarize the basis of the Intercultural Development Inventory IDI assessment and subsequent individual debriefing to gain intercultural capacity through formal reflection on one-self, learning about others, managing one's emotions in situations of differences, and learning techniques to bridge differences through changing one's own frame of reference.
5.  Demonstrate judgment in effectively organizing and managing multicultural teams for international projects..



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


Prerequisites: 

 


