HTM 35100 - E-Business For The Hospitality Sector

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces the students to the technological foundation of the internet, e-business strategies and models, as well as the social and ethical issues concerning the internet.  The students will gain a better understanding of how hospitality and tourism organizations conduct internet-based activities, and have integrated their online and overall business strategies.  Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and describe the unique features of e-commerce technologies and discuss their business significance.
2.  Identify and describe the various online business models.
3.  Develop a working knowledge of the approaches that hospitality and tourism businesses use to resolve market strategy issues.
4.  Develop a better understanding of online consumer behavior.
5.  Develop strategic marketing recommendations for businesses.
6.  Develop a working knowledge of website design features and characteristics.
7.  Describe the tools and skills necessary in commercial website development.
8.  Comprehend the principles of ethics as applied to e-commerce.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 10000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 17300 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  HTM 23100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 32400 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  CS 11000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CNIT 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CS 23500 Minimum Grade of D-)


