EDCI 55850 - Introduction To Teaching Engineering And Technology Design In The Context Of K-12 Integrated STEM

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Engineering and technology design has gained considerable traction in many K-12 schools. In this course, we will examine principals of engineering design and technology as well as where and how engineering and technology design best fits in a K-12 integrated STEM curriculum. Course participants will engage in authentic engineering and technology design experiences. Course participants will also design, develop, deliver integrated lessons that help K-12 students develop the knowledge, skills, and practices of engineering and technology design.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a broad understanding of engineering and technology education disciplines and concepts.
2.  Scaffold engineering practices that support diverse learners and describe conceptual understanding and content knowledge of engineering and technology design skills through problem-based learning in i-STEM environments.
3.  Comprehend and elaborate data-driven decision-making skills as practiced by engineering and technology professionals to develop solutions to design briefs that support K-12 learning in diverse learning environments.
4.  Examine and evaluate the engineering design process in the context of integrated STEM education at the K-12 learning.
5.  Collaborate and prepare pedagogical practices in integrated engineering and technology design through integrated STEM that support K-12 learning for a diverse group of learners.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  EDCI 55950 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


