HK 54500 - Therapeutic Modalities

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Course covering the physiological effects, indications, contraindications, and precautions of contemporary therapeutic modalities. Students will design and plan therapeutic interventions. Focus will be on the application of therapeutic modalities according to evidence based protocols. Included in this course will be the role of equipment safety and maintenance of therapeutic modalities. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
 1.  Explain the inflammatory response to acute and chronic injury.
2.  Select the appropriate modality according to treatment goals and objectives.
3.  Compare the prevailing pain control theories and associated rationale for the selection and use of therapeutic modalities for the control of acute and chronic pain.
4.  Evaluate the physical properties, biophysics, set-up, indications, contraindications, and specific physiological effects associated with the application of superficial cold and heat; stimulating electrical currents; diathermy; therapeutic ultrasound; intermittent compression units; iontophoresis; traction; massage; biofeedback; and LASER.
5.  Administer contemporary therapeutic modalities to a patient using clinically acceptable procedures including patient preparation, set-up, determination of dosage, and operational procedures according to established guidelines.
6.  Inspect therapeutic equipment and the treatment environment.
7.  Identify various standards that influence the approval, operation, inspection, maintenance and safe application of therapeutic equipment.
8.  Use a systemic approach to create and answer a clinical question.
9.  Summarize differences between narrative reviews, systematic reviews, and meta-analysis.
10.  Search for, find, and document the best evidence to support a problem or clinical problem.
11.  Develop a Critically Appraised Topic (CAT) that includes a PICO, creating a search strategy (search terms), using databases to find evidence, appraising evidence, determining levels of evidence, analyzing and synthesizing evidence, and determining a clinical bottom line.
12.  Present a Critically Appraised Topic using professional communication skills.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 50000 Minimum Grade of B-


