CSR 12000 - Introduction To Apparel Industry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introductory course that explores all facets of the apparel industry from its historical beginnings to concept of design and product development, to marketing, to manufacturing, to distribution, to retailing. Throughout the course, the student will learn about the career opportunities within the apparel industry.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire a basic understanding of the nature of fashion.
2.  Analyze the economic, sociological, and psychological factors affecting contemporary fashions; become acquainted with literature and resource materials dealing with these factors.
3.  Study the historical development of the apparel/retail industries; to examine the unique and complete interdependency of these segments and industry trends.
4.  Gain an understanding of the basic forms of business ownership, how businesses are organized, and how they expand; the importance of fashion businesses to the economy.
5.  Gain an understanding of and appreciation for the purposes served by the foreign and domestic markets; to examine the role of designers in these markets.
6.  Develop a more comprehensive understanding of both primary and secondary fashion markets.
7.  Understand the various types of retail distributors of fashion goods and the nature of their basic activities and policies.
8.  Explore the functional and activities performed by support services and how they service the fashion merchants.
9.  Determine the scope of careers in the fashion/retail industry.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Apparel Design & Tech

      Retail Management

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


