EDCI 35600 - Career Education In Family And Consumer Sciences

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Examination of middle and high school career education accomplished through family and consumer sciences, including (1) life and career exploration and planning; (2) analysis of career paths and opportunities in family and consumer sciences; and (3) career preparation through laboratory and cooperative education programs.  Historical and contemporary foundations for career education in family and consumer sciences is also are addressed.  Includes observations and interactions with students and teachers in career-education programs and participation in professional meetings.   Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine purposes, curriculum, and implementation strategies for career education accomplished through family and consumer sciences, including FCS careers, FCS supporting content, and FCS life and career foundations.
2.  Examine the structure and delivery of career and technical education in the United States and Indiana, state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to career and technical education, and important events and developments in the history of career and technical education and family and consumer sciences education.
3.  Engage in ethical professional practice professional development, and outreach in family and consumer sciences education, including advocacy and working with local advisory committees.
4.  Analyze instructional strategies and procedures for career education in family and consumer sciences, including integration of career and technical student organizations, particularly the Family, Career and Community Leaders of America (FCCLA) and coordination of students' work-based learning experiences through in-school laboratories and community-based placements.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  EDCI 20500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  EDUC F1000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]) and Undergraduate level  EDCI 28500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


