HDFS 22500 - Human Development Across Cultures

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides a basis for interdisciplinary exploration of cross-cultural human development and family relations throughout the lifespan. Key topics include international variation in cultural understandings of parent-child relationships, gender roles, education, work, social relationships, and health/wellness. Students will explore professional applications in an increasingly globalized world. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand and respect the diversity of children, youth and families around the world.
2.  Identify how family values and traditions vary across cultures and how these variations have emerged within broader ecologies (e.g., economics, treaties, history) of the culture.
3.  Articulate processes of intergenerational transmission of culture with a particular focus on parent-child relationships.
4.  Compare and contrast various cultural responses to issues important to children and families, such as conceptions of childhood, gender roles, education, and work-family relationships.
5.  Describe how individual characteristics such as friendship, altruism, leadership, academic achievement, delinquency, conflict management, aggression, and morality vary across cultures.
6.  Analyze the reasons for migration and immigration and their impacts on children and families.
7.  Develop skills for working across cultures, including cross-cultural communication and adapting to culture contrasts when interacting with those from a culture different from one's own.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HDFS 21000 Minimum Grade of D-


