BMS 23800 - Applied Physiology With Clinical Correlations II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  BMS 23800 introduces students to general physiology of mammalian body systems and general physiological processes, with emphasis on domestic animals. The course addresses the functions of the different systems, and the specific functions of the respiratory, renal, endocrine, and reproductive systems. Students will be introduced to ailments that result from malfunctions in each system. The course provides the basic physiological concepts of various organ systems and clinical correlations that emphasize how understanding basic physiological concepts can help in solving problems. The clinical correlations and the students-centered learning activities are deigned to promote critical thinking, team work, communication skills, and problem solving. The targeted undergraduate students are: Pre-vet, students, animal science majors, wildlife majors, and other interested students in biological sciences and biomedical engineering. Permission of instructor required.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the organs that make the respiratory, renal, endocrine and reproductive systems, and list the major functions of each system.
2.  Explain how each system activities are regulated.
3.  Discuss the different physiological processes that occur at cells, organs, and systems levels
4.  Compare and contrast between the functions of regulatory systems and other systems in the body.
5.  Summarize the contribution of different systems to the maintenance of the internal environment in which cells live.
6.  Use basic physiological concepts to understand clinical correlations.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CPB 23700 Minimum Grade of D-


