CSR 48500 - Case Studies In Financial Planning

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Financial planning principles and practice. Course utilizes a case study approach toward financial planning for upper- and middle-income households. Business calculator required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of the content found within the Financial Planning curriculum and effectively apply and integrate this information in the formulation of a financial plan.
2.  Effectively communicate the financial plan, both orally and in writing, including information based on research, peer, colleague or simulated client interaction and/or results emanating from synthesis of material.
3.  Collect all necessary and relevant qualitative and quantitative information required to develop a financial plan.
4.  Analyze personal financial situations, evaluating clients' objectives, needs, and values to develop an appropriate strategy within the financial plan.
5.  Demonstrate logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of various approaches to a specific problem.
6.  Evaluate the impact of economic, political, and regulatory issues with regard to the financial plan.
7.  Apply the CFP Board Financial Planning Practice Standards to the financial planning process.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Financial Counseling& Planning

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  AGEC 42500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  AGEC 45600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CSR 38600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CSR 48400 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CSR 48600 Minimum Grade of D-


