EDPS 52000 - Characteristics Of Students With Intense Intervention Needs

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will explore typical and atypical human development, characteristics and etiologies, as well as the influence of cultural, linguistic, and socioeconomic factors of students with intense intervention needs. Candidates will study medical conditions, physical and health needs, common medications, and the importance of transition plans, health-care plans, and behavioral and academic intervention plans designed to help students with intense intervention needs achieve desired positive learning outcomes. Candidates will be introduced to AAC systems, technology, materials, and other resources to support and enhance the communication skills of students with intense intervention and English learning needs. This course will also explore strategies for using digital tools and resources to communicate and collaborate with students, families, general education teachers, related service providers, paraprofessionals, community agencies, and other stakeholders to help students with mild disabilities achieve desired positive learning outcomes. In addition, candidates will analyze relationships across theory and practice, multiple perspectives and trends, and the application of these relationships within educational settings. Candidates will explore major theories and concepts related to online learning, virtual instruction, twenty-first-century skills, information literacy skills, and the diverse perspectives of online students and develop strategies for effectively integrating technologies into teaching and learning, discuss the benefits and challenges of technologies as educational tools, and apply technologies to meet a variety of learning purposes and needs.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize typical and atypical human development, characteristics and etiologies in order to address the educational needs of individuals with intense disabilities.
2.  Apply knowledge of the effects of medical conditions, physical and health needs, and common medications (e.g., stimulant, antidepressant, antiepileptic) on students with intense exceptional needs.
3.  Analyze the impact of disability on the multiple aspects (education, career, vocation, social relationships, recreation, and adult life) of the life of an individual with intense intervention  needs, including the knowledge of the family's role in supporting learning and development.
4.  Explain the influence of cultural, linguistic, and socioeconomic factors on the disproportionate identification of individuals with intense intervention needs from diverse groups.
5.  Maintain a safe and healthy learning environment by utilizing universal precautions, applying appropriate body mechanics to ensure safety in transferring, lifting, positioning, and seating, and implementing specialized health-care interventions for students with intense physical and health needs.
6.  Apply appropriate techniques for physical positioning, and maintain educational and assistive technologies to facilitate the learning of students with intense intervention needs.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


