PUBH 57400 - Healthcare Economics, Policy And Law

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course presents an overview of legal regulations and issues related to healthcare delivery and administration in multiple settings. Topics include healthcare legislation and regulation; professional and institutional liability; medical staff credentialing; patient consent requirements; termination of care; confidentiality of medical care; and the roles of federal, state and private stakeholders. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Be able to perform basic legal research.
2.  Apply the legal protections afforded to patient health information.
3.  Evaluate the forms of legal action that can be brought against public and private health insurance programs.
4.  Comprehend the implications of Federal ERISA law on private health insurance.
5.  Identify the common organizational and theoretical laws which apply to the health care environment.
6.  Identify and articulate aspects and perspectives of highly controversial subjects such as abortion, organ transplant, right to die, physician assisted suicide, informed consent etc.
7.  Differentiate between torts, negligence, malpractice, abandonment, and a variety of other legally charged and ethical complex legal terms.
8.  Articulate the role of ethics and compliance committees including their structure, goals, functions, and decision-making activities.
9.  Analyze and identify specific issues associated with coding, regulatory compliance, and ethical actions of skilled health care professionals and medical providers.
10.  Understand and articulate patient rights.
11.  Understand their unique role as a health care leader in providing quality patient care.
12.  Understand the demands of managing in a highly regulated, transparent and scrutinized field.
13.  Identify and bridge the gap between fiscally prudent stewardship and quality patient care.
14.  Understand and cultivate relationships between care givers and administration.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


