EDPS 24800 - Differentiating Curriculum And Instruction

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course provides a solid foundation and set of principles for differentiating curriculum and instruction in any classroom at any grade level. Students will explore a variety of evidence-based strategies, tools, and curriculum models that effectively meet the diverse needs of all learners. Through readings, online classroom meetings and discussions, case studies, differentiated instruction examples, direct application and reflection, students will deepen their understanding and need to differentiate. With an overarching goal of increasing achievement and developing student talents, this course includes the following major components: creating positive learning environments that support a) high-quality curriculum; b) diagnostic, formative and summative assessments to inform instructional decision-making; and c) flexible grouping addressing student differences in readiness, interest, and learning profile (including learning preference, intelligence preference, gender, culture, language preference, locale, and opportunities to learn) and appreciating how these differences influence the ways in which students learn understanding that process of differentiation involves modifying content, process, product, learning environment, and/or affect incorporating higher-order thinking skills, creative problem solving, project based learning, authentic/respectful tasks, collaborative learning, and other evidence based strategies to promote student achievement and talent development understanding how differentiation of curriculum and instruction fits within specific educational interventions and models, such as scaffolding, flexible grouping, Response to Intervention (Rtl), and Multi-Tiered System of Support(MTSS). Effective teachers do more than teach content; they teach unique individuals who enter classrooms with various levels of expertise, skills, abilities, social-emotional needs, and learning expectations. Effective teachers differentiate curriculum by personalizing content based on the particular needs and interests of their students. Effective teachers differentiate instruction by applying various grouping strategies, technology applications and thinking skills. The goal of every effective teacher is that every child learns something new every day. Cannot be taken concurrently with EDPS 24000. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and implement the concept of differentiation as a response to the needs, interests and abilities of learners by modifying curriculum, instruction, learning environment, and/or affect.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency in assessing students readiness, interests, and learning profiles and in creating differentiated lessons that utilize instructional strategies and technologies to engage special populations of students in learning.
3.  Develop, implement, and evaluate various differentiated instructional plans designed to maximize learning and demonstrate proficiency in analyzing and evaluating differentiated lessons taught by other teachers.
4.  Evaluate and reflect upon your course experience and plan for your future use of knowledge and skills gained in this course.



Corequisites: 

EDCI 20001

EDPS 20001

EDPS 26501


