CNIT 58500 - Organizational Change Management For IT Projects

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An exploration of the body of knowledge, skills, processes, methods, and techniques that IT project managers can use to manage the "people" side of organizational change that results from IT projects that implement new technologies, systems, services, and products into the workplace. This is sometimes called stakeholder management. The course reviews research of best practices in change management and their impact on project metrics such as schedule, budget, scope, stakeholder satisfaction. Students also learn how to identify and document the organizational and people impacts of new information technology solutions, and then develop a formal project plan to manage the organizational change. Permission of Department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the pros and cons in intelligent discourse, of the need for, and integration of techniques for organizational change management into information technology projects.
2.  Pro-actively apply an organizational change management framework and principles to a business situation, ideally an information technology project. 
3.  Discuss, in intelligent discourse, the types of disruptive organizational change and how they can be caused by information technology projects.
4.  Accurately document, and communicate IT-enabled changes to existing business processes.
5.  Select, defend and utilize organizational change management tools and techniques in the context of information technology projects and management.
6.  For residential, thesis students, research and contribute to the organizational change management body of knowledge as it can be applied to information technology projects.






Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


