PHRM 83200 - Principles Of Diagnosis Labs And Monitoring

Credit Hours: 1.00. This course will serve as an introduction to the role of diagnostics in the clinical continuum of patient care. Since most therapeutic decisions are based in part on information obtained through utilization of diagnostic testing, it is important for pharmacists to have an understanding of these  tests as the pertain to diagnosis. As they progress in their training, students will be required to evaluate and interpret diagnostic tests to help monitor and fine tune drug therapy. This course will provide an introduction to diagnostic testing as a whole, with an introduction to differential diagnosis and the selection of diagnostic tests. The students will also have the opportunity to learn about different types of testing (lab, imaging, etc.) and how to critically judge information provided by various tests. Finally, the students will be introduced to several common laboratory tests that have wide application in the diagnosis and treatment of many different disease states. This course will provide a background introduction to these tests, allowing the students to gain understanding of how the test is performed, how the results are interpreted and how to identify potential problems with the laboratory data, allowing a strong foundation as they move into subsequent integrated pharmacotherapeutic (IP) modules. Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the role of diagnostic testing in patient care.
2.  Describe the importance of differential diagnosis in the clinical evaluation of a patient.
3.  Construct a differential diagnosis for a patient based on a variety of clinical scenarios.
4.  Determine the reliability of diagnostic testing in terms of sensitivity, accuracy, positive predictive value and negative predictive value.
5.  Discuss the role of diagnostic imaging in patient care.
6.  Recognize the scientific rationale behind different methods of diagnostic testing. 
7.  Explain the rationale for several common and frequently used diagnostic tests. 
8.  Interpret a series of laboratory values as part of a patient case study.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


