AAE 25100 - Introduction To Aerospace Design

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The role of design in aerospace engineering. Introduction to aerodynamics, performance, propulsion, structures, stability and control, and weights. Layout and general arrangement of aerospace vehicles. Design concept generation and selection. Computational methods for design. Trade studies and graphical optimization. Conceptual design exercise involving aircraft, spacecraft, or both. Technical presentations and communication for aerospace engineering.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: School of Aero and Astro Engr 

Department: Aeronautics & Astronautics 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire and apply basic technical knowledge about aerospace engineering.
2.  Develop intuition about aerospace engineering and aerospace vehicles.
3.  Understand and implement the design process for aerospace systems.
4.  Use computers in aerospace design.
5.  Solve problems as part of a team.
6.  Design an aerospace vehicle/system.
7.  Give oral presentations and write technical reports required of design engineers.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ENGR 13200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 14200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 16200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 13000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  EPCS 12100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  VIP 17912 Minimum Grade of C-) and Undergraduate level  CGT 16300 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and (Undergraduate level  CS 15900 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CS 17700 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CS 18000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


