HDFS 41500 - Approaches To Early Childhood Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The historical and theoretical basis for early childhood education and early intervention is emphasized. Relations between theory and practice are examined and illustrated with model early childhood programs. Addresses cultural/developmental diversity, ethics, and standards in early childhood education and intervention. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand recommended practices in early childhood education and early intervention, including historical and theoretical sources and reasons for these practices for typically developing children, children with disabilities, and English language learners.
2.  Describe, evaluate, and apply ideas from influential early childhood curriculum models.
3.  Clearly articulate to others your theoretical assumptions, goals, and practices as an early childhood professional.
4.  Know ethical guidelines and best practice recommendations for early childhood teachers and early interventionists and be able to apply those principles to everyday problems in early childhood education and early intervention.
5.  Read, think, speak, and write about the course material, demonstrating your development as a professional, with increased confidence that what you do every day as a teacher is grounded in theory, recommended best practices, and research-based knowledge.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 40500 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 40500 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 40800 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 40800 Minimum Grade of B-)


