ECON 36200 - Health Economics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to introduce upper level undergraduate students in economics to the field of health economics. We will analyze health and health care theories, institutions, and key policy issues using tools from intermediate microeconomic theory. The course begins with an analysis of health care as a commodity and why health is different from other consumer goods. The course then examines the demand for and the production of health and health care, and the behavior and organization of health care providers. The discussion then switches to information asymmetries and the functioning of health insurance markets. Afterwards, the course turns to the analysis of government involvement in the health care system. The class concludes with an examination of medical care systems around the world, paying particular attention to the U.S. health care system.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the main economic theories relating to health and health care markets.
2.  Apply economic theory to the analysis of health care policy and institutions.
3.  Construct a detailed demand and supply model of the health insurance market.
4.  Critically evaluate key policy issues in health and health care from an economic perspective.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Economics-BS

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BA


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2020 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1040 Minimum Grade of C-)


