MGMT 37300 - Accounting Information Systems & Data Analytics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Learn how to manage the design, control and operation of accounting information systems. The emphasis is on identifying the information needs of decision makers and developing appropriate business process control in the design of accounting information systems. Gain an understanding and appreciation of the accounting information system and how it is used to successfully manage, audit and develop processes to support today's evolving business environment. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand and apply basic tools necessary for diagrammatically analyzing and documenting organizational data flows and business processes including data modeling and flowcharting.
2.  Gain an understanding of the various business processes necessary for an enterprise to successfully operate, the key controls for maintaining successful business processes, and application of the methodology for evaluating risks and controls within the given business process.
3.  Explain, justify and evaluate the components of organizational governance and associated effective internal control systems.
4.  Develop a basic understanding of data analytics and emerging technologies in accounting information systems.
5.  Explain and justify AIS auditing, computer fraud, and security techniques.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 20000 Minimum Grade of C-


