PHPR 48200 - Self-Care Pharmacy Practice II

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course is specifically designed to provide students with guided experience in the application of knowledge acquired during previous professional course work to the solution of simulated problems which occur in self-care pharmacy practice.  Specifically, the course is designed to introduce students to the appropriate selection and use of nonprescription medications and devices for the treatment of minor health complaints by patients.  A principle theme throughout the course is that the solution of all self-care problems (i.e., regardless of the context in which they occur) involves the application of the same basic problem solving process.  Course activities, readings and homework assignments will provide students with illustration of how the problem solving process can be applied to specific self-care situations that arise in practice.  Active learning methods will be employed to involve students directly in the actual application of this process to simulated practice problems.  Topics: Gastrointestinal Disorders.  Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify underlying cause(s).
2.  Identify common signs and symptoms.
3.  Recognize category I active ingredients in a given nonprescription drug category.
4.  Identify common side effects for a given category of nonprescription drugs. 
5.  Identify contraindications to the use of a given category of nonprescription drugs or devices.
6.  Recognize information that should be shared with patients relative to the use of a nonprescription drug or device in a given category.
7.  Identify indications for use of a nonprescription drug or device in a given category.
8.  Recognize nondrug measures commonly employed its treatment or prevention.
9.  Recommend an appropriate course of action for a given patient who seeks self-care advice.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year

      Professional Second Year


