VCS 81410 - Comparative Theriogenology

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course develops a broad clinical knowledge of common reproductive management strategies and clinical conditions associated with reproduction in the major domestic species. It provides information and strategies for the conduct of breeding soundness examinations and infertility work-ups in the male; estrous cycle characteristics, diagnostics and control in females; breeding management strategies, pregnancy diagnosis, and management of gestation; investigation and control strategies for pregnancy loss; management of parturition and treatment of dystocia; normal post-partum changes and diseases of the peri-partum period and the pathophysiology and treatment of uterine infections. Material will be presented in both comparative and species-specific manner. Students should review reproductive anatomy and physiology notes in preparation for this course. Typically offered Fall Summer.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Be conversant with core reproductive principles of all major species (bovine, equine, small animals with canine as the model, porcine, small ruminants).
2.  Understand similarities and differences in the physiological basis of key reproductive events across species.
3.  Integrate knowledge from various disciplines to understand clinical situations pertaining to the reproductive health of animals on an individual or herd basis.
4.  Understand the pathophysiology, clinical presentations, therapies, and prognoses for clinical issues pertaining to the reproductive health of animals on an individual or herd basis.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


