STAT 58200 - Statistical Consulting And Collaboration

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to emphasize and develop the skills needed by a statistical consultant/collaborator.  Topics include: problem solving, consulting session management, written and oral communication, research ethics, design of experiments, collection of data, and application of statistical methods to real problems.  Class activities include actively participating in consulting sessions held by the Statistical Consulting Service, small group projects, short papers, and oral presentations.  Permission of Instructor required.  Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Statistics 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Be aware of the skills necessary to be an effective statistical consultant/collaborator.  These skills include consulting session management, written and oral communication with clients, interpreting facial and body language, handling personality conflicts, practicing sound research ethics, properly designing an experiment and determining an appropriate sample size, and choosing an appropriate statistical method whose analysis addresses the client's questions given the available data.
2.  Know how to recognize problematic issues in the consulting/collaboration process and implement various strategies to address them.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-STAT 58200 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
STAT
51400


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
STAT
52500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



