PHRM 84200 - Community Pharmacy IPPE

Credit Hours: 4.00.  A 4-credit hour required experiential course in the second year of the professional Doctor of Pharmacy program.  Students learn community pharmacy operations and patient counseling skills. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Clinic 1 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform basic functions and skills in a community practice setting.
2.  Document a minimum of 160 hours of performance-based experience in a community pharmacy.
3.  Demonstrate professional and ethical standards of conduct.
4.  Reflect on professionalism displayed by pharmacy practitioners at the site.
5.  Recognize and describe exemplary pharmacy operations and dispensing practices.
6.  Debate the advantages and disadvantages of a variety of career options in community practice.
7.  Self-assess learning within the scope of the experience.
8.  Conduct an effective, conversational interview with a pharmacist.
9.  Discuss and describe in writing the community pharmacist's role.
10.  Discuss and describe in writing common problems/barriers that pharmacists encounter in the workplace.
11.  Discuss and describe in writing important aspects, advantages, and disadvantages of a career in community pharmacy.
12.  Reflect on new information learned.
13.  Describe and reflect on the community pharmacy work environment and staffing.
14.  Describe and reflect on the steps involved in the prescription filling and dispensing.
15.  Formulate and describe opinions on the quality of patient care.
16.  Describe and reflect on common causes of medication errors and methods of prevention and apply knowledge to suggest system improvements.
17.  Conduct an effective, conversational interview with a patient about medication use.
18.  Review the patient's medications in relation to their condition(s) or disease(s).
19.  Describe common problems/barriers patients encounter with medications.
20.  Utilize pharmacy references and document sources of information.
21.  Formulate an opinion on the value of pharmacists' involvement in patient care.
22.  Prepare a formal recommendation letter to a healthcare provider.
23.  Reflect on successes of the assignment and self-assess the need for improvement.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 82500 Minimum Grade of C-


