CLPH 44800 - Therapeutic Case Studies

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is intended to complement instruction of other courses in the second professional year of the Doctor of Pharmacy curriculum and to review many of the topics previously addressed in the Integrated Pharmacotherapy courses and Professional Program Laboratories. It is hoped that students who elect this course will enhance their development of a strong foundation of knowledge, clinical skills and abilities in order to meet the school's professional outcome abilities. Team-based problem-solving methodology will be utilized to discuss patient cases related to topics covered in the IP sequence.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge, skills, and attitudes about drug therapy monitoring and intervention, interpretation of patient and laboratory data, patient interviewing, and interpretation/resolution of drug interactions. 
2.  Apply material from previous and current course work in the curriculum to cases and scenarios involving patients from a variety of patient care settings.
3.  Demonstrate clinical decision making skills related to the generation of treatment algorithms for disease-based management and pharmaceutical care plans for individual patients.
4.  Demonstrate verbal communication skills with both patients and other health care professionals through class discussions, role playing, and group interaction.
5.  Describe and demonstrate basic physical assessment skills necessary to monitor drug therapy.
6.  Exhibit knowledge of generic names, brand names, and dosing of commonly used drug products.
7.  Describe the professional role of the pharmacist in providing pharmaceutical care to a diverse patient population with a variety of patient care needs in different settings.





Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year

      Professional Second Year


