EDCI 20002 - Special Populations Seminar: English Language Learners And Students With Gifts And Talents

Credit Hours: 1.00.  (EDCI 20002) This seminar is focused on special populations of learners for teacher education majors with an emphasis on students who are English learners and students with gifts, talents and creativity. Students will engage in mentoring activities and ongoing support in their development as a professional. The goal of the seminar is to connect theory to practice by engaging in an immersive field experience that connects to content and courses taken concurrently. The seminar provides an environment conductive to fostering rich relationships with schools and communities, pursuing common inquiry, thinking critically about theory, content and practice and advocation for equitable schooling. This seminar is intended to be taken concurrently with EDPS 24000 & EDCI 37001.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify connections between educational theory to educational practice as related to ELLs and students with GCT.
2.  Demonstrate active listening and constructive peer feedback during seminar sessions and in the field.
3.  Engage in mentoring activities related to teaching and learning in a community of peers and professionals.
4.  Reflect on their own learning, gaining insight into themselves and their interactions with the classroom as teachers of ELLs and students with GCTs.
5.  Complete a minimum of 30 hours in a school-based clinical experience including classroom observations, tutoring, assisting teachers, small and large group instruction and practicing the duties of a teacher who works well with ELLs and students with GCTs.
6.  Demonstrate the professional attitudes and conduct that facilitate learning and convey a positive image of the education profession.



Corequisites: 

EDCI 37001

EDPS 24000


