CLPH 45100 - Pharmacy Practical Training

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Course allows students to gain practice-related employment experience in a pharmacy setting. Pre-approval of enrollment through ISS is required prior to employment experience. Permission of instructor required.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Practicum, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Ensure pharmacy students receive early exposure to the most common career paths taken by today's graduates and gain a first-hand perspective of pharmacists' responsibilities and activities in their roles.  This contributes to a foundation for gaining appreciation of strategies for continually evolving patient care roles in practice.
2.  Provide pharmacy students with early observation of pharmacists providing pharmacy services that particularly address the following Professional Program (Pharm.D.) Outcome Ability Goals:  Integrative (Practice-related) Competence, Critical Thinking and Decision Making Abilities, Communication Skills and Abilities, Responsible Use of Professional Values and Ethical Principles, Social Awareness and Social Responsibility, Professional Abilities and Habits, and Group Interaction and Citizenship.  See the "Student Handbook" for specific descriptions of the components of these outcome abilities.
3.  Provide pharmacy students with early practice exposure that illustrates the reasons that pharmacists need in-depth learning of the basic and applied sciences and a commitment to lifelong learning for professional effectiveness.
4.  Provide pharmacy students with experiences and learning in care-giving that is essential to evolving a patient-centered care role.
5.  Contribute to pharmacy student development of a personal practice philosophy (professionalization) as well as a vision and motivation to become a positive practice change agent.
6.  Broaden students' perspectives on career pathways and foster initiatives to enhance career planning.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      College of Pharmacy

      Doctor of Pharmacy


