PHRM 84800 - Principles Of Drug Information And Literature Evaluation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide students with the fundamental skills needed for the provision of drug information in pharmacy practice.  Emphasis is placed on the evaluation, interpretation, and practical implications of primary medical literature on the delivery of pharmaceutical care.  Four recently published clinical trials will be reviewed and discussed throughout the semester to illustrate contemporary issues in the interpretation of biomedical research.  Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the fundamentals and importance of drug information skills for all pharmacists.
2.  Demonstrate effective verbal communication skills in obtaining pertinent background and patient-specific information when receiving drug information requests.
3.  Demonstrate effective written communication of drug information.
4.  Demonstrate familiarity with contemporary drug information retrieval technology and the ability to conduct a thorough and systematic search of the tertiary and primary literature.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to judge the reliability of various tertiary sources of drug information.
6.  Demonstrate an understanding of the role of the Internet in providing accurate and timely drug information.
7.  Demonstrate the ability to incorporate drug information, patient-specific factors, and other pertinent information in the delivery of pharmaceutical care.
8.  Describe the hierarchy of study designs as it relates to level of evidence.
9.  Explain the general principles of observational and experimental research designs used to answer drug information questions.
10.  Explain fundamental regulatory and ethical principles involved in human subjects research.
11.  Differentiate between internal and external validity of clinical trial results.
12.  Apply the principles of literature evaluation to analyze recent clinical trial results.
13.  Understand and interpret statistical tests commonly used in contemporary biomedical literature.
14.  Delineate between statistical significance and clinical significance.
15.  Interpret the usefulness of clinical trial data for making evidence-based practice decisions.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 82500 Minimum Grade of C-


