HTM 31100 - Procurement Management For Foodservice

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Identifies and describes food, supplies, and related merchandise used in the foodservice industry. Provides methods and criteria for recognizing quality, evaluating, specifying, purchasing, and inspecting these products. Discusses the use of technology in the purchasing component of the foodservice industry. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain foodservice procurement principles such as steps in the procurement process, procurement-menu relationship, quality standards, and vendor relations.
2.  Explain factors impacting procurement decision such as ethics, government regulations, global economic conditions, sustainability, distribution sales channels, technology, competitors, consumer behavior, and skills and knowledge of buyers.
3.  Apply foodservice procurement principles, factors, and data analysis to formulate decision related to product, quantity, price, supplier/manufacturer, and inventory management.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Coordinated Dietetics

      Didactic Dietetics

      Dietetics/NutrFitness & Hlth

      Nutrition & Dietetics

      Economics

      Family & Consumer Science Educ

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 19100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  NUTR 12500 Minimum Grade of C-


