ENE 62000 - Design, Cognition And Learning

Credit Hours: 3.00. Design is central to engineering: it is an integral part of the engineering profession and how we educate future professionals. Design cognition and learning is an area of engineering education research that seeks to understand what designers know and how they learn, and what tools best support design activity (e.g., collaboration, innovation, etc.). This research draws from many perspectives including cognitive psychology and the learning sciences, organizational learning, engineering and product design, architecture, human-centered interaction, and creativity and innovation. Themes in the course include (1) design knowledge, (2) what theories help understand design knowing and learning, (3) what are ways to study designers and design activity, and (4) how may design research inform design education and practice? Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Engineering Educ 

Department: Engineering Education 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explore and critique multiple perspectives on design cognition and learning, some of which are synergistic and some of which conflict, to develop a more sophisticated understanding that acknowledges and builds on different perspectives.
2.  Stretch, broaden, and challenge perspectives.
3.  Share and clarify ideas through writing and discussion.
4.  Develop a landscape view of cognition knowing and learning that may also reveal gaps in knowledge.
5.  Critique and discuss a variety of ways people study design to better understand what methods are appropriate for what kinds of research goals.
6.  Examine data drawn from a variety of methods (e.g., verbal protocol analysis, sketches, surveys, debrief interviews and reports).
7.  Experience different resources across disciplinary communities.
8.  Identify central resources for finding information.
9.  Develop an awareness of differences across diverse design communities (e.g., differences in language, values, approaches).
10.  Experience and reflect on design through in class activities.
11.  Examine other designers (peers as well as existing design data) to develop skills of noticing and seeing that may be used to guide personal reflections on a design philosophy, to develop a research proposal, or to develop an awareness of the kinds of challenges learners experience about design knowing.
12.  Synthesize ideas through class discussion, activities, and out-of-class reflection blog posts.
13.  Give and receive feedback on the final course project at multiple points in the term.
14.  Develop an application of research on design knowing and learning (a philosophy statement, a research proposal, an education proposal, a synthesis to identify gaps).



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


