HTM 49201 - Hospitality Operation Management And Leadership

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Students apply managerial skills and techniques in organizing, directing and controlling a full service restaurant operation as they rotate through a variety of managerial positions. Students will also participate in lectures, assignments, and projects on topics related to leadership, such as interpersonal communications (emphasis on culture, gender and age differences), ethical leadership (emphasis on integrity and credibility), public speaking, teamwork and critical thinking. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Design and implement a marketing campaign targeting one or more of the food service operations.
2.  Work cohesively in a team environment, and demonstrate an appropriate level of professional supervision of a restaurant.
3.  Coordinate production flow and sequence of service to maximize service quality.
4.  Demonstrate facility and equipment operation and maintenance in the restaurant.
5.  Apply principles of purchasing and selection of materials, product storage, and rotation appropriate to the restaurant.
6.  Identify and apply principles of food safety and sanitation, responsible alcohol service, and quality food production in the restaurant.
7.  Describe and apply appropriate ethical standards in dealings with customers, staff, fellow students and instructors in all parts of the lab and classroom experience.
8.  Demonstrate the ability to analyze and effectively decrease food costs and increase contribution margins to the current restaurant concept.
9.  Compare and contrast issues associated with leading employees from different cultures, ages and genders.
10.  Practice interpersonal communication skills by delegating, coaching, and presenting feedback.
11.  Evaluate leadership issues in terms of ethics, integrity, and credibility.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 21200 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 29101 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 29102 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 34100 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 49111 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


