PUBH 20500 - Basic Public Health Studies

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Examination of basic scientific concepts as applied to the problems and issues in selected areas of human health behavior with particular attention to their influence on population and individual health. Restricted to students enrolled in major degree programs for which this course is a requirement.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the nature of public health promotion and disease prevention in the US.
2.  List the leading causes of death and describe leading theories of health behavior.
3.  Define the components of psychological health and describe the basic traits shared by psychologically healthy people.
4.  Describe the nature of stress, the physiology of the stress response, and the relationship of stress to health/disease; identify the major sources of stress in contemporary society and discuss interventions for stress management.
5.  Discuss categories of drugs, routes of administration and drug interactions.
6.  Describe the relationship of alcohol, tobacco and caffeine to health and disease.
7.  Describe the general concepts of nutrition, list and explain the recommendations made to the public by various health agencies to decrease risk of chronic disease.
8.  Describe various theories of obesity, discuss concepts of weight management, define/describe body image and the disordered eating continuum, define anorexia and bulimia nervosa, and list symptomatology and risk factors.
9.  Discuss the relationship of physical activity and physical fitness to health and/or disease and provide rationale (based on evidence from exercise epidemiology) for the recommendations made to the public concerning activity/exercise participation.
10.  Describe the anatomy and basic functions of the cardiovascular system and the prevalence/incidence of heart disease, identify risk factors and describe the features of atherogenesis and other diseases of the heart and vascular system.
11.  Describe the prevalence and incidence of the various types of cancer and identify cancer risk factors.
12.  Describe the prevalence and incidence of diabetes and list risk factors for diabetes.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Pre Applied Exercise & Health

      Applied Exercise & Health

      Athletic Training

      Pre Athletic Training

      Dietetics/NutrFitness & Hlth

      Kinesiology

      Nutrition, Fitness & Health

      Public Health Promotion Conc

      Public Health Promotion

      Public Health


