FNR 52900 - Disease Ecology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Study of the ecological and evolutionary complexity inherent to host-pathogen interactions. Includes case studies from a diverse array of systems, including plants, animals, aquatic and terrestrial systems. Emphasis is on the interactions between multiple hosts and pathogens within complex, dynamic environments. Introduction to parasite and pathogen diversity, host-pathogen coevolution, community ecology and the importance of pathogens in conservation and management. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate the roles played by the diversity of parasites and pathogens found in complex natural systems.
2.  Apply the foundational principles of disease ecology - the importance of hosts, pathogens, and the environment - to understanding disease dynamics in natural systems.
3.  Evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of different modeling approaches in disease ecology.
4.  Understand how disease models are used in management and conservation.
5.  Apply both ecological and evolutionary theory to examine the impact of infectious disease on host populations, communities, and ecosystems.
6.  Demonstrate an understanding of patterns in pathogen diversity and abundance across landscape to regional scales.
7.  Articulate understanding of disease ecology through written and oral communication.
8.  Demonstrate an understanding of the scientific literature and an ability to critically evaluate this research for an interdisciplinary topic.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

BIOL 28600 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
28600


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



