VM 81003 - International Veterinary Medicine- Directed Experience

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00. This course allows veterinary students to participate in a unique faculty-led veterinary learning experience in an international location. Credit will be assigned on the basis of 1 credit for each 45-50 hours of student effort up to a maximum of 6 credits. In most instances, one week of experience will equal one credit. Each veterinary learning experience will be designed by the faculty leader to accomplish specific learning goals in the focuses area of study. The course will be offered in the summer and will vary in length from 1-6 weeks depending on the specific experience. Typically offered Summer.

    1.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  To increase the student's understanding of a focused area of veterinary medicine in its international context.
2.  To develop an understanding of the importance of a global education. 
3.  To increase awareness of global health issues.
4.  To become aware of international veterinary career opportunities.
5.  To encourage leadership development and diversity awareness. 
6.  To develop an understanding of the unique issues in veterinary medicine in the geographic location of the experience and be able to communicate these to their colleagues. 
7.  To foster relationships between Purdue University and international colleagues. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Veterinary Medicine-DVM

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year

      Professional Third Year

      Professional First Year


