HIST 61000 - History: Theory And Methods

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is the first part of an introductory two-course sequence for new graduate students intended to acquaint them with some important issues regarding the modern professional practice of history. This semester concentrates on historiography, theoretical questions, and methodological debates that today's working historians inevitably encounter. Students read about the practice of historical scholarship and read several important example texts representing different approaches to the discipline over the past 200 years. Students write several short book reviews, position papers, and a mock grant proposal during this semester. The course is required of incoming graduate students in history. It usually will be followed by HIST 61100, Research Practicum.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: History 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Become familiar with current trends in historical writing and argumentation.  
2.  Master a certain amount of knowledge about the evolution of the historical profession (historiography) but more importantly the recognition of problems inherent in asking and answering historical questions using documentary evidence and other sources available to scholars. 
3.  Able to formulate a research question and situate it within a context of existing historical scholarship, arguing for its significance to the community of scholars to whom it is addressed.  
4.  Develop critical thinking and communication skills.  
5.  Learn ethical research conduct and the appropriate use of historical investigation will be explored in the course of the seminar.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      History-ND

      History-PHD

      History-MA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


