EDCI 24200 - Principles And Philosophy Of Vocational And Technical Education

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  An introduction to the origin, scope, evolution, and objectives of vocational and technical education. Emphasis will be placed on the need for vocational-technical education and its relation to other types of education. Typically offered Summer Fall Spring.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine the history and development of the field of Career, Vocational, and Technical Education and its related disciplines.
2.  Describe the federal and state legislation and initiatives that impact(ed) the field.
3.  Identify the purpose, goals, and principles of Career, Vocational, and Technical Education.
4.  Discuss the organizational structure and foundations of the field.
5.  Examine past and current philosophies and their roles in relation to theory and practice in Career, Vocational, and Technical Education.
6.  Identify and describe the fundamental elements necessary to formulate a philosophy in the field.
7.  Distinguish among trends, issues, and problems.
8.  Synthesize and analyze the major trends, issues, and problems in the field of Career, Vocational, and Technical Education.
9.  Overview the major educational reform initiatives and evaluate their relationships to theory and practice in Career, Vocational, and Technical Education.
10.  Identify and review contemporary research and development programs/program improvement initiatives and examine their contributions to knowledge in the field.
11.  Discuss the professional, ethical, political, economic, and social factors that impact theory and practice in Career, Vocational, and Technical Education.
12.  Identify and locate major sources of resources in the field.




