NUR 54500 - Advanced Practice Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing Across The Lifespan I Preceptorship

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Students engage in the PMHNP role in a clinical setting under the supervision of a Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) or MD. Students implement and evaluate mental health assessment skills, evidenced based treatment interventions and evaluate effectiveness integrating principals of neurobiology, culture, developmental and functional abilities. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply appropriate diagnostic modalities in assessing the mental psychiatric care needs of children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
2.  Incorporate clinical and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate care for child, adolescent, adult, and older adult clients with psychiatric disorders.
3.  Communicate orally and in writing culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, goals and interventions for children, adolescents, adults and older adults with psychiatric disorders.
4.  Use legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of psychiatric and medical disorders in children, adolescents, adults, and older adults.
5.  Implement interdisciplinary collaboration and PMHNP scope of practice to provide safe treatment to children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
6.  Address the uniqueness of diverse populations in providing safe healthcare to children, adolescents, adults and older adults.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-CPOSTM


