SCLA 10100 - Transformative Texts, Critical Thinking And Communication I: Antiquity To Modernity

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The primary goal of the course is to provide students with a foundational knowledge of transformative literature from around the world as well as fundamental reading, writing, speaking and analytical skills. This first course in the sequence introduces students to great texts from antiquity to the birth of the modern era. Its goal is to create life-long learners, open to the world, and sensitive to other points of view. It exposes students from across the university to the ideas, skill-set and inspiration that animates from the liberal arts, and it also introduces them to liberal arts faculty. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: College of Liberal Arts Admin 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Written Communication, GTC-Information Literacy, UC-Written Communication, UC-Information Literacy 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Statewide

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Write with clarity, coherence, and concision in a variety of genres. 
2.  Demonstrate an importance of rhetorical situations and choices for a variety of audiences and contexts. 
3.  Demonstrate critical thinking about writing through reading, analysis, discussion, composing and revising texts in a range of genres. 
4.  Apply a clear understanding of the process of writing (including drafting, revising, editing, proofreading, and collaborating with others and providing feedback); and successfully organize, present, and communicate meaning to fellow readers in at least 8,000 words of polished writing. 
5.  Identify, analyze, and evaluate the claims of a variety of print, digital, audio and visual sources. 
6.  Engage critically with transformative texts, drawing on multiple perspectives including the individual, the historical, and the contemporary.



