HSCI 34600 - Industrial Hygiene Engineering Control

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Study of the various techniques needed to control hazards in the workplace. Major emphasis is placed on developing a working understanding of industrial ventilation, including basic principles of fluid flow, hood and duct design, and system balancing. Effects and control of the physical hazards of noise, vibration, and heat stress are addressed. A field trip to a major industry summarizes the course material. Typically offered Spring.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe/understand different approaches for controlling exposures in the occupational environment, and give hypothetical and real situations in terms of the best control methods.
2.  Select and size the components of a local exhaust ventilation system: hoods, ductwork, air cleaners, fans, and balance/test such systems, culminating in the ability to design a complete ventilation system.
3.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of heat stress and heat strain and apply this knowledge to prevent heat injury in the workplace.
4.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of noise-induced hearing loss and apply this knowledge to prevent it in the workplace.
5.  Perform calculations of noise levels, noise doses and the effectiveness of noise control options.
6.  Synthesize and apply knowledge of the IH paradigm (AREC) in analyzing practical industrial hygiene/occupational health problems.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HSCI 34500 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  PHYS 22100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS 23400 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS 24100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS 27200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS 25100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS 27100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  PHYS P2020 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


