MGMT 42310 - Global Marketing Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Most US businesses, large and small, are becoming deeply involved in international business.  The trend is going to grow even stronger because of the influence of the World Trade Organization and regional trade blocks.  Under these circumstances, it is imperative that business managers possess the skill set to adapt their marketing strategies to the needs of international markets.  The course will cover concepts and theories pertaining to international marketing and provide the tools necessary to develop an international marketing plan.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain key concepts of global marketing such as: a) application of the marketing concept to diverse cultures and b) positioning the same product or service in different cultural markets.
2.  Analyze consumer behavior in global markets in terms of:  a) cross-cultural values: collectivism, power distance, masculinity, and uncertainty avoidance and b) consumer decision-making process.
3.  Create market plans in foreign markets that adjust the marketing mix appropriate for the host culture including: a) product and packaging design and crafting the appropriate features and benefits for the country, b) adapting brand images, archetypes and related symbols, icons, spokespeople, designs and logos appropriately to diverse global markets, c) establishing the pricing strategies relevant for the host market, and d) selection of the optimal distribution channel in foreign markets.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Actuarial Science

      Advanced Accountancy

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Interdisciplinary

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufacturing Mgmt

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


