EDPS 43000 - Creating And Managing Learning Environments

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  The purpose of this course is to enable you to develop a supportive, challenging, and growth-enhancing classroom community for students in elementary grades. Teachers need insightful understanding and strong skills to create a classroom community that enhances achievement, welcomes diversity, makes effective use of technology, and provides appropriate educational experiences for students with diverse needs, backgrounds, and developmental levels.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop skills for building classroom communities.
2.  Analyze different approaches to classroom discipline and the effects of those approaches on the cognitive, social, and emotional development of diverse students.
3.  Develop a personal philosophy of classroom discipline.
4.  Understand how student diversity, developmental levels, technology, instructional design, room arrangement, and assessment techniques influence the classroom community and climate.
5.  Develop strategies for effective management of professional time and tasks.
6.  Learn how to collaborate with colleagues and parents to enhance student learning and development.
7.  Develop a comprehensive plan for creating and managing the learning environment in a real or simulated teaching situation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Elementary Education

      Special Ed/Elem Education


Corequisites: 

EDCI 36300


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDCI 36100 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDCI 32600 Minimum Grade of C-


