HTM 51200 - Leadership In Hospitality And Tourism

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will focus on the knowledge and skills required for effective leadership. Topics will draw upon an extensive body of research on leadership theory and practice and cover organizational behavior and team dynamics, business communication, decision making, motivation and change management. In addition, specific skill development in the areas of problem solving, written and oral communications, leading teams and goal setting, it will include models for examining personal career paths, ethical decision making and the role or organizational change agents. This course will take an interdisciplinary approach and analyze leadership through different lenses and how leadership insights can be effectively applied to hospitality organizations. Students will examine leadership examples where individuals moved an organization from normal to exceptional functioning and extraordinary results. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply knowledge of organization behavior, including the impacts of personality, motivation, and emotional intelligence, to leadership situations in a hospitality business.
2.  Evaluate and apply leadership theories and approaches to business situations.
3.  Practice effective team building within hospitality organizations.
4.  Prepare and deliver effective business communication in a variety of settings (written and oral).
5.  Implement change processes within organizations and lead change management.
6.  Explain how leadership values and ethics effect the overall functioning of the organization, and perform an ethical evaluation of leaders' behaviors.
7.  Apply self-analysis techniques to develop a personal leadership development plan to guide them throughout their careers.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


