HSCI 51500 - Introduction To Nuclear And Radiological Source Security

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on the basic elements of nuclear and radiological source security. It examines methods for planning and evaluating nuclear security activities at the State and facility level, establishing nuclear security culture in different types of nuclear and radiological installations, and examines nuclear cyber and information security measures.  Issues and approaches for nuclear security concerns, both state-level (e.g., nonproliferation and deterrence) and asymmetric concerns (e.g., nuclear smuggling and nuclear terrorism) will be addressed.  The integration of safety and security and the use of alternative technologies will also be covered. Group exercises and simulations in applied nuclear security scenarios will complement lectures given by a number of national and international experts. This course is designed for both "technical" (engineering and science) and "non-technical" (policy) students and the interaction between students of different backgrounds is encouraged.  Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. To introduce students to the basic concept of nuclear security.
2. To introduce students to the basics of nuclear security planning at the facility and state level.
3. Introduce students to proliferation efforts, framing them within the historical and security-related context.
4. Create a foundational understanding of relevant security, safeguards and nonproliferation treaties and agreements.
5. Leverage existing technical knowledge in coming to policy conclusions.
6. Develop both a regime and state specific knowledge base.
7. Illustrate understanding through technical and policy oriented exercises.
8. Expand relevant technical knowledge base as well as introduce students to new instrumentation and concepts.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-HSCI 51500 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
31200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



