IET 48390 - Industrial Engineering Technology Capstone I: Problem Identification And Analysis

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is the first semester of a two-semester capstone sequence, which focuses on an industry-based, team approach to problem solving. An array of qualitative and quantitative tools is used to identify and analyze an industrial or business process. Data collection, process maps, flow analysis, Pareto chart, computer simulation, and other optimization tools will be used to identify problem areas and possible solutions. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Laboratory, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use appropriate research/design processes to identify problems or areas for improvement.
2.  Participate effectively in teams.
3.  Collect sufficient data to qualitatively and quantitatively describe/evaluate the problem.
4.  Identify learning needs/knowledge gaps needed in order to complete projects(s).
5.  Propose and properly document a potential design solution or process improvement.
6.  Demonstrate ethical conduct, describing societal, environmental, and economic implications of proposed solutions.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Industrial Engineering Tech-BS

      Industrial Engineering Tech-BS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  TLI 43530 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  IT 44200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  IET 43530 Minimum Grade of D-) and Undergraduate level  MET 24500 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  TLI 43640 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  IET 43640 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


