CEM 39700 - Experimental Course

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00.  This course is required to assist in the development and testing of new courses for either residential or on-line delivery. Initially, there may be more residential courses than online courses due to faculty availability and/or workload.

    1.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Introduce students to essential elements of engineering theories, practices, and applications in the field of construction engineering. Courses may address two or more ABET outcomes.
2.  Able to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science and mathematics.
3.  Able to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.
4.  Able to communicate effectively with a range of audiences.
5.  Able to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
6.  Able to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives.
7.  Able to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
8.  Able to acquire and apply knowledge as needed using appropriate learning strategies.



