NUTR 53300 - Community Nutrition Experience

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Application of previous knowledge and communication skills in nutrition of community settings, such as school nutrition, health facilities, and federal or state nutrition programs.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nutrition Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Conduct projects using appropriate research methods, ethical procedures and data.
2.  Justify programs, products, services and care using appropriate evidence or data.
3.  Demonstrate professional writing skills in preparing professional communications.
4.  Perform the Nutrition Care Process and use standardized nutrition language for individuals, groups and populations of differing ages and health status, in a variety of settings.
5.  Practice in compliance with current federal regulations and state statutes and rules, as applicable, and in accordance with accreditation standards and the Scope of Nutrition and Dietetics Practice and Code of Ethics for the Profession of Nutrition and Dietetics.
6.  Demonstrate active participation, teamwork and contributions in group settings.
7.  Refer clients and patients to other professionals and services when needs are beyond individual scope of practice.
8.  Participate in professional and community organizations.
9.  Demonstrate professional attributes in all areas of practice.
10.  Show cultural competence/sensitivity in interactions with clients, colleagues, and staff.
11.  Perform self-assessment and develop goals for self-improvement throughout the program.
12.  Demonstrate advocacy on local, state or national legislative and regulatory issues or policies impacting the nutrition and dietetics profession.
13.  Demonstrate effective communications skills for clinical and customer services in a variety of formats and settings.
14.  Design, implement and evaluate presentations to a target audience.
15.  Develop and deliver products, programs or services that promote consumer health, wellness and lifestyle management.
16.  Deliver respectful, science-based answers to client questions concerning emerging trends.
17.  Apply current nutrition informatics to develop, store, retrieve and disseminate information and data.
18.  Apply evidence-based guidelines, systematic reviews and scientific literature.
19.  Function as a member of interprofessional teams.
20.  Propose and use procedures as appropriate to the practice setting to promote sustainability, reduce waste and protect the environment.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


