EDPS 56010 - Clinical Practice I Experience: Practicum

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00.  This is a supervised clinical practice experience across two (2) special education settings, one at the elementary level (K-6) and a second experience at the secondary level (5-12) serving students with Mild and/or Intense Intervention Needs. These experiences take place over the course of 8-16 weeks depending upon availability and individual agreements with our partner district. These experiences are a coordinated effort between the Clinical Practice Coordinator, University Supervisor, and highly qualified, practicing Cooperating Teachers from both the elementary and secondary placements. Candidates assess, design and deliver lessons, manage student needs and behaviors, develop IEPs, integrate technology to support learning outcomes, collaborate with families and colleagues, and analyze the experience of facilitation a classroom and caseload of students. In addition, candidates will analyze relationships across theory and practice, multiple perspectives and trends, and the application of these relationships within educational settings. Candidates will explore major theories and concepts related to online learning, virtual instruction, twenty-first-century skills, informative literacy skills, and the diverse perspectives of online students and develop strategies for effectively integrating technologies into teaching and learning, discuss the benefits and challenges of technologies as educational tools, and apply technologies to meet a variety of learning purposes and needs.

    0.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Full-Time Privileges, Student Teaching, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply knowledge of instructional design to develop a series 3-5 lessons that include: observable and measurable instructional objectives, baseline assessment data, and plans that are incrementally appropriate to the learner and his/her ability to master the given content.
2.  Apply knowledge and skills to develop an Individualized Education Program that is student centered, based on data, and collaborative.
3.  Apply knowledge regarding principles of human behavior to analyze the "function" or the reason(s) behavior occurs and identify strategies to decrease inappropriate behaviors and increase appropriate behaviors.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


