AMST 60400 - Transnational American Studies

Credit Hours: 3.00.  What does the term "transnational" mean? How is the term defined, practiced, and studied in different fields? How does one take a transnational perspective, or examine the transnational variable? This course will draw from various fields (sociology, history, anthropology, ethnic studies, etc) to explore contemporary scholarship on transnationalism in theory and in practice. Specifically, we will examine scholarship that either, 1) utilizes the transnational perspective in understanding history, the globe, and human behavior/interactions, or 2) utilizes transnational behaviors/ties as a variable to measurement adaptation. Materials in this course will examine-through the lens of race, ethnicity, class, gender, and sexuality-individual and comparative transnational case studies related to the Americas, Africa, Asia, and Europe. This is a graduate seminar, and your active participation in discussions is mandatory. You will be asked to lead four seminar discussions on selected topics from the required readings, write three memos, and submit an extended book review.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Interdis Studies 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge across a range of chronological, cultural and geographic areas.
2.  Show a familiarity with the concept of transnational, including a sense of changing interpretations and an understanding of various approaches and explanation.
3.  Describe how different aspects or types of human endeavor and experience may be connected.
4.  Identify the roots of contemporary issues and challenges, with attention to social values and the role of identity in the human experience.
5.  Apply a critical perspective to evaluating arguments, including the quality of sources, the validity of the interpretations of those sources, and the soundness of the argument's use of evidence to support that interpretation.
6.  Formulate and support an argument in a well-focused, logically organized piece of writing.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


