BCM 30101 - Introduction To Construction Company Financial Management

Credit Hours: 2.00.  An introduction to methods for recognizing revenue for long-term construction contracts and each method's impact on financial statements. Includes introduction to analysis of financial statements and their use in developing company budgets, projecting cash needs, pricing construction projects, and forecasting the impact of business decisions on construction company profit.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Construction Mgmt Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and explain the use of various revenue recognition methods available to the construction contractor.
2.  Identify the unique accounts required for percentage of completion revenue recognition, describe what the account represents, and indicate on which statement the account is found.
3.  Interpret the outcomes of line-item analysis, vertical analysis, horizontal analysis, and cost-volume-profit analysis utilizing construction company financial statement data.
4.  Perform a profit center analysis of an income statement.
5.  Prepare an annual budget for a construction company given source documents.
6.  Analyze the impact of various decisions on company profits by applying the cost-volume-profit financial analysis technique.
7.  Select the appropriate overhead and profit allocation technique given example company cost structures and compute minimum company overhead and profit mark-up rates.
8.  Prepare a monthly company budget given the annual budget and other appropriate information.
9.  Compare the monthly budget prepared to actual data.
10.  Compare and contrast profit and cash flow for the construction company.
11.  Prepare a cash flow projection by applying the company monthly budget.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Building Const Mgmt Tech

      Construction Management


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 20000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 20010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 21200 Minimum Grade of C-


