EEE 47200 - Community-Engaged Engineering & Design

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Utilizing a transdisciplinary approach in a real-world, client-based service-learning design experience, students will lead the design and implementation of community-engaged sustainability projects integrating not only their discipline-specific knowledge, but community partner and stakeholder knowledge as well. This course will require travel outside of class to community partner sites to collaborate in the design process. Sustainability projects to improve the health and wellness of communities will be implemented at multiple sites. The complex and dynamic relationships between social, economic, environmental, and political sectors in such community-engaged projects will be investigated. Permission of instructor required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Div of Environ & Ecol Engr 

Department: Environ & Ecological Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Display social responsibility, civic engagement, and leadership in addressing sustainability issues: evaluate and apply diverse perspectives from multiple stakeholders to site-specific design solutions; connect and extend academic knowledge to improve the health and wellness of communities; take informed, responsible action to address ethical, social, and environmental challenges related to sustainability at partner sites; communicate project efforts in a creative, well-organized, and logical manner.
2.  Design novel, context-appropriate solutions to sustainability issues using a transdisciplinary knowledge production model: describe the interconnectivity between environmental, social, political, and economic issues surrounding technical solutions; apply a transdisciplinary knowledge production model; propose solutions to open-ended design problems that demonstrate a deep comprehension of the issues.
3.  Engage in the complexities of a negotiated design process occurring between multiple stakeholders in a professional and ethical manner: demonstrate empathy and adaptability in working with teammates and stakeholders with varied skills, talents, abilities, and work strategies; create project deliverables that demonstrate cohesive stakeholder functionality; critically evaluate personal and others' contributions to the overall success of the projects.



