HDFS 40800 - Curriculum Applications Of Atypical Development

Credit Hours: 4.00.  An introduction to early childhood special education and early intervention including its rationale, service delivery options and program models.  Student will learn specialized teaching strategies including the use of structured prompting (e.g., mand-model), functional behavior assessment and positive behavior support.  Development of Individualized Education Programs and Individualized Family Service Plans will be addressed.  Strategies for and practice in meeting children's needs in inclusive and natural settings are addressed. For Early Childhood Education and Exceptional Needs majors only. A field experience in preschool or primary grade classrooms is included. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe various models of early childhood programs for children with special needs (including the concept of inclusion) and the laws governing their operation. 
2.  Explain the Individualized Family Service Plan and Individualized Education Plan and their relationship to planning activities and instruction for young children with special needs. 
3.  Implement multiple strategies of assessing children's learning needs and intervening to promote learning and development. 
4.  Apply a routines-based and/or activity based approach to intervention with infants, toddlers, and young children with disabilities or who are at-risk for disability. 
5.  Demonstrate the dispositions and skills of a developing early childhood teacher, as described in this syllabus and in the practicum evaluation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


