MGMT 44431 - Compensation: Total Rewards

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines the tangible and intangible aspects of compensation, through the lens of a total reward philosophy of an organization in order to attract, motivate, and retain their Human Capital. It also provides an overview of the considerations necessary to develop a compensation system that is internally and externally equitable and fiscally responsible, including the use of job evaluation and salary surveys. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate the difference Total Rewards programs can make in organizations.
2.  Distinguish between total rewards and compensation and identify compensation and non-compensation elements of total rewards.
3.  Recognize various reward systems, their relationship and connection to a total compensation and benefits philosophy, and how they impact the quality of work life and productivity organizations.
4.  Assess the practical issues in compensation and employee benefits in light of a company's management philosophy and human resources strategies.
5.  Define job evaluation and its use to develop internally equitable compensation systems.
6.  Identify the implications of using salary surveys to ensure externally equitable and fiscally responsible compensation systems.
7.  Explain the concepts of salary administration and application of compensation programs in the business environment.
8.  Better understand effective salary and wage structures in organizations today.
9.  Explain the relationship between performance evaluation methods and reward systems.
10.  Discuss the legal aspects of compensation, benefits and performance appraisals.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  OBHR 33000 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  MGMT 44428 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 44301 Minimum Grade of C-)


