EDCI 36501 - Teaching Science Through Design In Grades K-2

Credit Hours: 2.00.  One of the primary goals of this course is to provide you with opportunities to enhance your pedagogical knowledge and skills so that you can become a culturally inclusive and effective teacher. Hence, learning to teach science in this class will involve conceptualizing science as a verb and not as a noun. To make the distinction more precise, we prefer to use the term critical cross-cultural science education instead of science education when referring to the teaching and learning of science in the increasingly culturally diverse context of schools in the US. Critical cross-cultural science education is defined as the process of actively engaging students in collaborative inquiry about what science is; whose interests are served by science; who decides what science is and what gets funded as science; and what kinds of individual and collective roles individuals could play as informed and responsible citizens in supporting the advancement of science to benefit society. Admission to teacher education required. At least 9 credits of science content required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  List and contrast current models of science teaching and learning.
2.  Demonstrate competence in the use of various learner-centered pedagogical strategies for culturally and linguistically diverse students.
3.  Develop collaborative, inquiry based, cross-cultural, learner centered unit plans.
4.  Demonstrate competence in assessing student learning and in developing plans of action to meet students' needs.
5.  Implement pro-active strategies to establish a safe classroom environment in which all students are encouraged to participate and express their views.
6.  Demonstrate competence in the use of instructional technologies to enhance student learning.
7.  Demonstrate competence in integrating science, technology, engineering practices and mathematics (STEM) across the curriculum to address culturally and socially relevant issues.
8.  Demonstrate competence in developing unit plans that engage children in the use of the engineering design process to address culturally and socially relevant issues.
9.  Demonstrate competence in developing activities that promote children's computational thinking.
10.  Explain how his/her personal philosophy of teaching and learning contrasts with the College of Education mission: "We are committed to social justice and education of all the children of all the people - especially in the area of P=12 STEM education."
11.  Participate actively in discussing regarding curriculum development and implementation designed to address the needs of culturally diverse learners.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Elementary Education

      Special Education

      Special Ed/Elem Education


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 24000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 24800 Minimum Grade of D-


