BIOL 36700 - Principles Of Development

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course deals with the process by which genes in a fertilized egg control cell behavior in the embryo and so determine the nature of the animal or plant. The emphasis is on early development and the laying down of body plan and organ systems in various model systems (Drosophila, nematode, Arabidopsis, zebrafish, mouse, chick, and frog).

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
4.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
5.  Students demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
6.  Students who complete the CMD DS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions.
7.  Students who complete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the principles governing the development of multi-cellular animals and plants.





Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D-) and Undergraduate level  BIOL 24100 Minimum Grade of D-


