AAE 51100 - Introduction To Fluid Mechanics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The basic conservation equations are derived for a compressible viscous fluid, and then are specialized for applications in potential flow, viscous flow, and gas dynamics.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Aero and Astro Engr 

Department: Aeronautics & Astronautics 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use index notation to derive vector and tensor relations.
2.  Manipulate and derive governing equations in various forms.
3.  Determine streamlines, pathlines, streaklines and timelines for unsteady flow.
4.  Determine how vorticity is produced by various mechanisms.
5.  Determine the motion of two-dimensional point vortices.
6.  Use conformal mapping to find the lift coefficient on an airfoil shape.
7.  Use a Schwarz-Christoffel transformation to solve for potential flow with corners.
8.  Use three-dimensional potential flow to solve for flow over axisymmetric bodies.
9.  Solve for steady and unsteady exact solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations.
10.  Derive and use the Stokes drag law for a sphere.
11.  Derive boundary layer equations, find self-similar solutions and determine scaling laws.
12.  Compute skin friction on an airfoil using an approximate boundary layer method.
13.  Determine the qualitative effects of turbulence on a flow.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR AAE 33300 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
AAE
33300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
)



