VM 20700 - Small Animal Nursing Clinical Mentorship III-DL

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This is the third of three clinical mentorships in small animal nursing.  This mentorship will require the student to work with a small animal veterinary care facility to practice several tasks under the supervision of a clinical mentor.  This clinical mentorship focuses on the principles of oncology, dermatology, ophthalmology, and emergency care procedures.  Permission of department required.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform fine needle aspiration of veterinary patients.
2.  Perform Tru-Cut biopsy.
3.  Perform sample collection for dermatophyte culture.
4.  Perform Schirmer Tear Test; a fluorescein stain test.
5.  Perform use of a Schiotz tonometry.
6.  Perform dilation of the eye and examination of the internal eye structures.
7.  Perform history on a critical patient.
8.  Perform physical examination on a critical patient.
9.  Perform hospitalized patient care; record keeping and observation.
10.  Perform the placement of a jugular IV catheter.
11.  Perform calculating; monitoring and maintaining correct IV fluid rate for critical care patients.
12.  Perform the collection of an arterial blood gas sample from femoral artery.
13.  Perform first aid procedures.
14.  Demonstrate closed chest CPR.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Vet Nrs Distance Learning

      Vet Tech Distance Learning


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VCS 14700 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  VCS 23001 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  VCS 23300 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  VM 22300 Minimum Grade of D-


