MA 27101 - Honors Multivariate Calculus

Credit Hours: 5.00.  This course is the Honors version of MA 26100, Multivariate Calculus; it will also include a review of infinite series. The course is intended for first-year students who have credit for Calculus I and II. There will be a significant emphasis on conceptual explanation, but not on formal proof. Permission of department is required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Mathematics 


Course Attributes: Honors, Lower Division, GTC-Quantitative Reasoning, UC-Quantitative Reasoning 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Know techniques of vector algebra and be able to apply these to the geometry of space; in particular they will be able to find equations for lines and planes in space. 
2.  Find equations for standard surfaces in space. 
3.  Use vector methods to analyze motion in space, and calculate arc length and curvature. 
4.  Acquire a conceptual and computational knowledge of infinite series; in particular they will be able to test for convergence, and to do calculations with power series. 
5.  Understand the meaning of partial derivatives in various situations, and will be able to calculate with them. 
6.  Know the multivariable chain rule and its meaning, and will be able to apply it to calculate derivatives in various situations. 
7.  Know the meaning of directional derivatives and how to calculate them.
8.  Find tangent planes. 
9.  Find and classify extreme values and saddle points and use the method of Lagrange multipliers. 
10.  Know the meaning of multiple integrals and how to calculate them.
11.  Know the meaning of line integrals and surface integrals and how to calculate them.
12.  Know Green's theorem, Stokes' theorem, and the divergence theorem and their applications.



