EDCI 54400 - Career And Technical Education For Special Needs Learners

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Legislative initiatives; identification of special needs learners at the elementary, secondary, postsecondary, and adult levels; learning characteristics; assessment; individualized planning; instructional adaptations; school and community resources; exemplary program models; research, trends, and issues; and evaluation. Typically offered Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the major historical and contemporary legislative provisions affecting the delivery of career and technical education to special needs learners.
2.  Identify and describe the educational characteristics of special needs learners, including students with disabilities, disadvantaged students, gifted and talented learners, non-traditional learners, and limited-English proficient speakers.
3.  Describe and use appropriate strategies for assessment of the career needs, learning styles, and progress of special needs learners.
4.  Develop and evaluate individualized education, career, and transition plans for a special needs learner.
5.  Select and use appropriate instructional strategies, procedures, and materials.
6.  Identify and select appropriate community, business, industry, school, governmental agency, occupational, and professional resources.
7.  Compare and contrast various exemplary program models for special needs learners.
8.  Evaluate the major professional trends, issues, and implications for career and technical education programs for special needs learners.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


