EDCI 54501 - Teaching STEM Through Agriculture, Food, And Natural Resources

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course focuses on the background and history of STEM movement and agricultural education, contemporary models, strategies, and justification for incorporation of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) concepts and practices into K-12 formal and non-formal agricultural education programs. Consider and develop the best practices for STEM teaching and learning and enhancement of STEM content in agriculture, food and natural resources (AFNR) context. The goal of the course is to help students develop knowledge about STEM integration and equip them with teaching knowledge and skills for designing K-12 lesson plans by using integrated STEM through AFNR.  Students will learn strategies that promote engagement in integrated STEM through AFNR activities. At the end of the course, students should be able to design and implement research-based integrated STEM through AFNR lesson plans and assessment plans. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Analyze integrated models of STEM learning, and justify how a selected model informs best practices for science and agriculture, food, and/or natural resources teaching and learning.
2. Evaluate current national and state standards that help design lesson plans in non formal, and formal educational contexts.
3. Develop lesson plans by using agriculture, food, and/or natural resources as context to teach STEM content and concepts.
4. Describe life and 21st century skills that are relevant in agriculture, food, and/or natural resources contexts and demonstrate how these skills can be integrated into lesson plans.
5. Create an assessment plan to evaluate learning outcomes.
6. Apply learner-centered teaching strategies, such as inquiry-based learning, to teach the lesson plans.
7. Create a manuscript that can be used to disseminate the integrated STEM lesson to professional audiences.



