EDCI 55300 - Leadership Development In Career And Technical Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Design, development, implementation, and evaluation of systems and strategies for enhancing the skills and knowledge of personnel seeking to become leaders in the field of Career and Technical Education (CTE); research related to critical and emerging leadership issues, strategies, policies, and resources are examined and applied to program improvement initiatives in schools, the workplace, agencies, and other organizations that serve a wide variety of youth, adolescents, young adults, and adults. Typically offered Summer Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 3 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and adapt models of staff development, in-service education, and program improvement.
2.  Use organizational, adult learning, motivational, leadership, and social systems therapy in staff development and school-or agency-based program improvement activities.
3.  Develop and implement organizational communications and group-related interactions effectively.
4.  Evaluate the principles related to leadership style; organizational development, initiation and management of change, needs analysis, and consultation strategies; and program improvement activities.
5.  Locate current and emerging funding sources, as well as effective procedures for developing grant seeking and project management strategies.
6.  Implement comprehensive strategies for developing assessing and improving programs, policies, practices, and services related to career and technical education programs.
7.  Design and implement effective interagency collaboration initiatives.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


