EDCI 52301 - Foundations Of Bilingual Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course builds foundational and practical knowledge of children's bilingual development and the sociocultural, cognitive, philosophical, and educational basis for high-quality dual language and other bilingual education programs. It focuses on research and current issues related to the bilingual development of emergent bilinguals in K-12 contexts. It is designed for pre-service and in-service bilingual teachers and administrators, in addition to other teachers of English language learners and researchers interested in high-quality and equitable educational programs for bilingual students. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the various dimensions of bilingualism, bilingual language use, and bilingual language ability.
2.  Outline the dimensions of language proficiency and the challenges of measuring bilingualism.
3.  Describe development processes and types of early and late development of bilingualism.
4.  Describe the role of translanguaging in bilingual language development and use, and the connections between identity and bilingualism.
5.  Describe the role of languages in society, including factors that contribute to language maintenance and loss.
6.  Describe the cognitive aspects bilingualism.
7.  Identify the features of various models of bilingual education and the theories that guide their implementation.
8.  Describe historical and current policies, court decisions, and legislation that have shaped bilingual education.
9.  Identify the essential features of strong bilingual programs that lead to high levels of bilingualism and biliteracy.
10.  Explore the findings of specific research studies that provide evidence of the effectiveness of well-designed bilingual education programs.
11.  Describe the ways bilingual education programs can address the needs of a all bilingual students, including students with exceptionalities and special needs.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


