EDPS 50701 - Foundational Techniques For Telemental Health Providers

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The purpose of this course is to provide a broad overview of individual therapy with adults via telemental health using a videoconferencing platform. Within this course, students will develop general, foundational knowledge related to pre-screening adults for individual therapy, conducting intakes with adult clients, engaging in individual therapy sessions with adult clients, terminating with adult clients, and managing risk with adult clients. Additionally, this course offers a brief overview of telemental health therapy with children, couples, families, and groups. This course is taught in an asynchronous manner and uses various strategies to facilitate student learning, which include: discussion boards, case studies, role plays, self-assessment papers, and pre-recorded lectures with associated PowerPoint slides. Access to necessary technology resources which includes but is not limited to: stable internet access, Brightspace, a telemental health or associated platform, and a computer, is required to complete the course.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire basic knowledge for telemental health technologies/platforms.
2.  Learn the basic function and operations of telemental health technologies/platforms.
3.  Obtain an understanding of telemental health technologies' strengths and limitations.
4.  Become familiar with the primary ethical considerations for telemental health practice.
5.  Learn ethical considerations associated with telemental health practice.
6.  Identify ethical considerations that are unique to telemental health practice as compared to in-person, face-to-face clinical practice.
7.  Be encouraged to research and learn basic telemental health practice guidelines and laws for their associated profession and state-of-practice, respectively.
8.  Learn about effective utilization of telemental health technologies/platforms for individual therapy with adults.
9.  Acquire foundational knowledge in conducting an effective pre-screening appointment for potential individual therapy clients with telemental health.
10.  Become knowledgeable in how to use basic clinical skills within individual therapy via telemental health.
11.  Learn about the termination and referral processes when working within telemental health.
12.  Know how to address unexpected and unique issues associated with telemental health (e.g., loss of connectivity).
13.  Able to successfully implement essential, foundational clinical skills within a telemental health technology/platform.
14.  Engage in active discussion via online discussion boards regarding the application of clinical skills within telemental health.
15.  Engage in active practice and application of foundational clinical skills as related to telemental health (i.e., role plays).
16.  Foster self-awareness of their strengths and areas of growth regarding telemental health practice.
17.  Work to identify their strengths and areas of growth regarding telemental health prior to learning course material.
18.  Work to identify their newfound strengths and continued areas of growth regarding telemental health near completion of the course.
19.  Learn risk management with adults via telemental health.
20.  Learn how to address suicidality and homicidality in adults with telemental health practice.
21.  Obtain introductory knowledge and skills in telemental health practice with couples, families, groups, and children.
22.  Be provided with cursory knowledge regarding therapy with couples, families, groups, and children using a telemental health platform.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


