ECET 33900 - Digital Signal Processing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course introduces students to the fundamental principles associated with processing discrete time signals. The architecture, instruction set and hardware and software development tools associated with a fixed point general purpose VLSI digital signal processor are examined. Some common real-time applications are implemented such as digital filters and DFT-based spectral estimation on a typical fixed point digital signal processor.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the architectural features of a DSP and relate these to the DSP kernel equation.
2.  Manipulate different binary number formats associated with a fixed point DSP.
3.  Develop and debug simple programs that involve SOPs, modulo addressing, scaling and extraction of result, and common DSP program structures.
4.  Describe the consequences and limitations of sampling baseband signals including the Nyquist rate and bandwidth, quantization noise, aliasing, frequency folding, reconstruction, spectrum of sampled baseband signals.
5.  Express a sampled deterministic analog signal in closed mathematical form and expanded form using the unit sample.
6.  Express a sampled signal in terms of the Z transform, in expanded and closed form.
7.  Describe the relationship between the transfer function and impulse response in an LTI system.
8.  Describe the operation of convolution and its implementation using hand calculations, mathematical software packages, and a fixed-point DSP.
9.  Design and analyze FIR filters with the aid of a mathematical software package such as MATLAB.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ECET 27900 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and (Undergraduate level  MA 22200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16020 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16021 Minimum Grade of D-)


