VCS 80220 - Veterinary Skills And Competencies IV

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to allow students to develop competence in communication, husbandry, diagnostic, and therapeutic skills of veterinary medicine and surgery. In addition, instruction will be delivered in the areas of veterinary business, professionalism and health professional wellness.  Instruction will be provided by online modules, hands-on laboratories using models, cadavers, and live animals, as well as, self-paced training in the veterinary skills lab. Students will further develop these skills through the care of teaching animals. Students will also complete observational assignments and treatment duties in the Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate safe and appropriate administration of medications via IV to dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
2.  Demonstrate ability to perform biopsies of dogs, cats, food animals, and horses and to submit specimen to the diagnostic laboratory.
3.  Demonstrate ability to perform basic regional anesthetic techniques.
4.  Demonstrate understanding of the anatomy of, types of, and testing of anesthetic machines.
5.  Demonstrate understanding and use of various feeding tubes in small animals.
6.  Demonstrate ability to properly position small animals for radiographs of limbs.
7.  Demonstrate ability to correctly operate fluid and syringe pumps.
8.  Demonstrate understanding of FAMACHA scoring.
9.  Demonstrate ability to place nasal oxygen cannula, perform nebulization, and coupage.
10.  Demonstrate ability to perform end-tidal CO2 monitoring.
11.  Demonstrate ability to pass orogastric tubes and esophageal feeders on ruminant models.
12.  Demonstrate ability to perform injections and venipuncture on live animals both small and large
13.  Demonstrate ability to establish rapport with a client in an emergency situation.
14.  Demonstrate ability to communicate appropriately in situations involving ethical issues.
15.  Demonstrate understanding of educational debt to income level and options to manage educational debt repayment.
16.  Demonstrate understanding of appropriate reporting of reportable diseases and foreign animal disease investigations.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


