ABE 44000 - Cell And Molecular Design Principles

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines the design principles underlying the organizations and dynamics of biological networks with an emphasis on genetic/molecular circuits. Topics include the structure and tuning of network motifs and relationship to performance parameters such as robustness to internal noise, temporal response, noise filtering, bi-stability, pattern generation and temporal programs. Examples are presented from the study of natural systems and the design of new synthetic systems.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand, describe, and calculate quantitative features of biological networks.  
2.  Create simple, mechanistic models of gene expression.
3.  Identify different types of networks motifs in biological networks. 
4.  Describe when particular motifs would be useful for specific types of biological functions.
5.  Ananlyze the dynamics and steady state behavior of simple transcriptional motifs or gene circuits. 
6.  Tune the parameters of a genetic circuit to design a particular behavior such as a temporal program, an asymmetric, or a bistable switch. 
7.  Design and characterize a transcriptional motif or genetic to result in a particular function, behavior of feature such as robustness, noise filtering, or patterning. 
8.  Understand the importance of and describe the basic requirements for generating oscillations in cells. 





Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  MA 26500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  MA 26600 Minimum Grade of D-) or Undergraduate level  MA 26200 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 22100 Minimum Grade of D-)


