LING 57600 - Latin American Indigenous Languages And Cultures

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will help students to learn the importance of understanding the diversity of Latin American indigenous languages and cultures as well as the intercultural understandings gained when these indigenous languages are valued within the global context.  Moreover, this course will provide a general cultural and linguistic framework to understand the sociolinguistic status of the language within the context where it exists.   In this course, students will deepen their knowledge of Latin American indigenous cultures and their historics, as a means to achieving a greater understanding of both a shared humanity and the variety of human experiences.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Interdis Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Acquire in-depth knowledge in a chosen, specific indigenous people while demonstrating panoramic understanding of Latin American indigenous groups.
2. Explain the brief history of US interaction with a particular Latin American country of this course topic.
3. Show basic oral and auditory competency in the language; will demonstrate how to express and understand basic statements, greetings, requests for directions, for food, and general courtesy interactions in the particular language.
4. Identify the particular complex interactions of the indigenous language within the context of the dominant colonial language.
5. Identify the linguistic position of the language within the context of indigenous languages of the Americas.
6. Identify basic cultural characteristics associated with the language speaking community.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


