CE 51501 - Building Energy Audits

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to provide students with the necessary skills to perform an energy audit on commercial and residential buildings. Energy accounting procedures for all major building subsystems are covered in detail, along with operational cost analysis of these systems. Students learn fundamental techniques for auditing the building envelope; electrical and lighting systems; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems; internal thermal loads; and building maintenance and operation procedures. Students also learn to analyze electric and natural gas utility tariffs and rate structures and apply their findings to the energy auditing process.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze utility tariffs and rate structures for electricity and natural gas, and use the information to help guide energy audits.
2.  Perform an energy audit of all major building subsystems, including the building envelope, electrical and lighting systems, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, internal thermal loads, and building maintenance and operation procedures. 
3.  Numerically model the energy consumption of each of the building subsystems, and run parametric studies to determine and recommend appropriate energy conservation measures. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      Graduate School

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Graduate

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CE 51501 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CE
41300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
CE
41400


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



