HK 30700 - Injury Assessment III

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A continuation of HK 30600. A guided lecture and laboratory experience designed to teach the student injury assessment techniques of common illnesses and disease most often encountered by allied health professionals. Students will learn common prescription and over-the-counter medications, including indications, contraindications, record-keeping procedures, drug classifications, side effects, and regulations related to the use of medication with the physically active. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors pertaining to general medical conditions across the life span in the physically active and special populations.
2.  Explain and identify the etiology, prevention, recognition and management of conditions leading to sudden death.
3.  Explain and identify the etiology, prevention, recognition and management of general medical conditions associated with the systems of the body across the life span in the physically active and special populations.
4.  Demonstrate the ability to assess and interpret findings in the evaluation of general medical conditions, using diagnostic accuracy and clinical prediction rules, associated with the systems of the body.
5.  Explain the general therapeutic strategy, including drug categories for the treatment of general medical conditions.
6.  Use available resources to identify indications, contraindications, precautions, and adverse reactions of prescription and non-prescription medications.
7.  Develop a clinical question, search for, assess, and synthesize evidence related to general medication conditions and pharmacology.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Athletic Training


