CS 48900 - Embedded Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Software for embedded systems; programming with extreme constraints on memory, storage, and processing power; programming models, including synchronous, asynchronous, and concurrent; programming systems that run forever; use of Finite State Machines (FSMs); review of embedded hardware and available boards; asynchronous and synchronous serial connections (e.g., RS232 and SPI); General Purpose I/O (GPIO) pins; relays, servos, and other peripherals; design for low power; battery characteristics; systems that communicate over computer networks and the Internet; current industry practices; design of embedded projects; working in teams. CS 35200 (Compilers) and CS 35400 (Operating Systems) are recommended, but not required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Computer Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand basics of embedded systems.
2.  Understand how and why many Internet of Things (loT) devices use the cloud.
3.  Understand how embedded systems are employed in a variety of situations, including smart homes and buildings, security systems, cars, and planes.
4.  Understand the three basic programming models, and when each is appropriate.
5.  Understand how synchronous and asynchronous serial devices operate.
6.  General characteristics of batteries and which type of battery is appropriate for various embedded designs.
7.  Understand the use of relays and how embedded logic that operates on low voltage can control high voltage peripherals.
8.  Understand why systems that use sensors and actuators must be calibrated.
9.  Understand how to build and demonstrate a working embedded system.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Computer Science-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CS 25000 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  CS 25100 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  CS 25200 Minimum Grade of C


