VCS 80120 - Veterinary Skills And Competencies II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to allow students to develop competence in communication, husbandry, diagnostic, and therapeutic skills of veterinary medicine and surgery.  In addition, instruction will be delivered in the areas of veterinary business, professionalism and health professional wellness.  Instruction will be provided by online modules, hands-on laboratories using models, cadavers, and live animals, as well as, self-paced training in the veterinary skills lab. Students will further develop these skills through the care of teaching animals. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate competency in the advanced restraint of dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
2.  Demonstrate basic safety, husbandry, and restraint of avian and exotic species.
3.  Demonstrate ability to take, record, and communicate appropriate history information.
4.  Demonstrate safe and appropriate administration of medications via SQ and IM to dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
5.  Demonstrate ability to safely and appropriately perform jugular venipuncture of cats, dogs, food animals, and horses using models.
6.  Demonstrate ability to perform a physical examination including abdominal assessment and rectal palpation of a cat, dog, food animal, and horse.
7.  Demonstrate ability to perform a FNA and prepare a slide for cytology.
8.  Demonstrate ability to collect specimens for diagnostic lab submission.
9.  Demonstrate ability to operate radiographic equipment.
10.  Demonstrate ability to position for abdominal radiographs in small animals.
11.  Demonstrate ability to perform PCV/TP, blood glucose, I-Stat, and USG diagnostics.
12.  Demonstrate ability to create understandable discharge instructions which foster client compliance.
13.  Demonstrate an understanding of student loan information and re-payment options.
14.  Demonstrate effective communication within the veterinary team.
15.  Demonstrate effective communication with owners about finances and be able to provide estimates for medical recommendations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


