HDFS 40500 - Language, Literacy, And Social Studies In Preschool And Primary Grades

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on teaching language, literacy and social studies in preschool and primary grade classrooms. It covers the developmental foundations and curriculum applications of language, literacy and social studies teaching in pre-kindergarten and of social studies in primary grades and includes ways to plan, implement and evaluate developmentally appropriate instruction for children with and without disabilities and children who are learning English. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the purposes and importance of reading and writing in early childhood classrooms and homes, including the importance of supporting children's vocabulary, language comprehension, alphabet knowledge, phonemic awareness, and concept and functional use of print. 
2.  Understand the purposes and importance of social studies in early childhood, including supporting children's understanding of themselves and the diverse nature of their communities, history, economics, citizenship, leadership, and civics and government. 
3.  Understand strategies for facilitating children's development of language, literacy, and social studies skills. 
4.  Plan, implement, and evaluate developmentally appropriate instruction in language, literacy, and social studies, including responding to the needs of diverse learners. 
5.  Demonstrate an understanding of Indiana State Standards for literacy and social studies for children from birth-3rd grade (www.doe.in.gov/primetime/foundations and http://dc.doe.in.gov/Standards/AcademicStandards/index.shtml). 
6.  Demonstrate the dispositions and skills of a developing early childhood teacher, as described in this syllabus.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Corequisites: 

HDFS 40800


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


