CM 55000 - Risk Management In Construction

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Analysis of the depth and breadth of risk in construction. Defining key terms and concepts used in various risk management arenas - legal statutes, precedent and case studies relevant to construction risk management, insurance, and surety bonding. Subjects include:  contracts, torts, insurance, surety, safety laws, quality, and risk management models. Analysis of case studies to utilize risk management tools and identify issues and possible approaches. Project risk control including management of foreseeable hazards as well as unforeseen conditions.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Construction Mgmt Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Overview of risk fundamentals - and how liability drives outcomes.
2.  Understand the relationships between insurance, sureties, contractual risk transfer and risk financing.
3.  Understand how safety covers direct employees, other parties, and member of the public.
4.  Understand the role of incident investigation, and management of claims of various types.
5.  Understand quality and how to deliver acceptable project results.
6.  Understand the value of Business Continuity Planning and other Crisis Management methods and tools.
7.  Understand the value of corporate compliance programs for satisfaction of regulatory and other legal requirements.
8.  Understand standards of care, and their evolutionary nature, compelling "compliance as you go."
9.  Ability to critically evaluate existing risk management approaches, and apply risk management models to promote successful project outcomes.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Bldg Construction Mgmt-MSBCM


