PSY 62101 - Genes, Brain And Behavior

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines how genes regulate development and function of the brain to ultimately influence behavior. Genetics has come to be an important aspect of research in almost every field of Neuroscience and Psychology ranging from neural development to cognitive function and dysfunction. However, many students have not had the opportunity to explore this in their studies to date. Therefore, the goal of this course is to provide students with the background needed to understand and think critically about the genetic components of Neuroscience and behavioral research. Numerous questions will be explored mainly through discussion of research papers. Lectures by the professor will fill in background knowledge needed to understand the readings. The questions explored will include: What are chromosomes and genes? What do they do? How do they do it? How do genes control development of the brain? How are single genes manipulated in animals to study their effects on behavior? How can genes associated with normal or abnormal behavior be identified? What has been learned from gene-behavior studies in animals? in humans? What do these studies tell us about the nature-nurture controversy? In addition to exploring these more traditional aspects of behavioral genetics we will address the 3 most exciting recent developments. These include the use of transgenic primate models, selective remote control of specific neural circuits using optogenetics and chemogenetics, and epigenetics, which helps explain how environmental factors and behavior itself can change gene activity and how these changes may be transmitted from one generation to the next. Many behaviors could be used to explore the principles these questions address. The readings will be selected from papers that focus on learning & memory and mental illness. However, if students are interested in other behaviors, papers that involve those behaviors and serve our purposes can be substituted. Grading will be based mainly on informal presentations of papers and participation in discussions of these papers. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Psychological Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand historically relevant and current research on how genes influence behavior.
2.  Become familiar with approaches used to study how genes influence behavior.
3.  Gain background knowledge and experience needed to understand and critically evaluate research on the influence of genes on behavior.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


