EAPS 30100 - Oil !

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Petroleum is a common thread that interweaves Geoscience with the Political-Economic history of the 20th century. Its dominance in current society has major repercussions on our current and future society and environment. The unequal distribution of petroleum and natural gas, coupled with innovative geologists and engineers, has set the stage for the modern geo-political world. This course is a unique survey into the multitude of aspects of petroleum -- from its formation to "resource wars".

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Dept Erth Atmos & Planetry Sci 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Enlighten and enable self-discovery of this major past, present and future issue in human civilization. 
2.  Understand the selected major oil-gas basins.
3.  Learn Technical writing.
4.  Examine case examples of past unethical corporate or private behaviors and how these were eventually resolved or remain a concern (e.g., monopoly building and later bread-up of Standard Oil; Ecuador pollution cases;; CIA involvement with Iranian government overthrow in 1950s to restore oil company monopoly; corruption in African and other "oil-cursed" nations; atmospheric pollution of cities; major oil spills; etc.). 
5.  Learn exactly how a hydrogen-fuel car would function, including engineering costs; or exactly how ozone is produced in car-dominated cities in the summer. This multidisciplinary course also includes aspect of social change, role of oil-gas in national politics, climate effects, and the petrochemical industry products.
6.  Understand petroleum basins and the importance of hydrocarbons in history/society/climate is essential. This OIL! Course is unique in placing the geological aspects into the broader context of social, international and environmental concerns.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ENGL 10100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10800 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1310 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1320 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W2330 Minimum Grade of D-


