NUR 41801 - Clinical Capstone And Issues In Professional Practice

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Promotes the use of critical thinking, clinical reasoning, and active learning to analyze contemporary issues related to professional nursing practice.  Issues surrounding political action, socio-legal concerns, cultural diversity and ethics in nursing practice are used as a framework.  A supportive and structured clinical component in a real-world setting encourages the learner to focus on refining clinical, leadership, and time-management skills in the delivery of care to diverse groups of clients across the lifespan.  The clinical component assists the learner to transition from the role of students to novice nurse.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Analyze standards of nursing care and regulations related to credentialing and certification.
2. Evaluate components of nursing history that impact contemporary nursing and healthcare systems.
3. Utilize inquiry, analysis and information literacy to address practice issues, ambiguity, and unpredictability in the healthcare system.
4. Demonstrate understanding of the impact of local, state, national and global regulations on healthcare trends and healthcare policy.
5. Articulate the value of pursuing practice excellence, life-long learning, and engagement in professional nursing practice.
6. Demonstrate appropriate use of critical thinking, clinical reasoning, time management, delegation, and coordination of care when providing quality nursing care to clients in the community or clinical setting under the supervision of a qualified, licensed registered nurse preceptor.
7. Integrate principles of evidence-based practice, ethical decision-making, interprofessional communication, and advocacy to answer questions within the practice setting.
8. Contribute to quality and patient safety initiatives that use comprehensive, sustained, integrative, data-driven approaches to assess and evaluate systems and aim toward continual improvement of client care.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 31401 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31501 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31701 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31801 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C


