FNR 31300 - Aquaponics

Credit Hours: 1.00.  (SFS 31100) (HORT 31110) There has been a significant renewed interest in the investigation of integrated fish-food plant systems. Such systems have a long and rich history, particularly in Asia; and our impending food crisis has kindled an interest in developing aquaponics systems in western countries. Many growers are turning to controlled environment and hydroponic production methods to produce high-value crops in tight quarters. The waste disposal problem of the fish can become the nutrient supply to the plants. Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the nature of interactions among organisms, in particular those involving plants: mutualism, commensalism, parasitism, herbivory.
2.  Understand the relationships among host, environment and pathogen for development of plant disease.
3.  Know principal pathogens of Midwestern crops.
4.  Understand the pathways of nutrient cycling in the soil and the biosphere; e.g. N, P, C cycles.
5.  Have a broad understanding of the principles of sustainability, including agricultural sustainability.
6.  Understand the importance of energy in society and in agricultural production systems.
7.  Understand the importance of natural resources in society and in agricultural production, and the principles of their conservation. 
8.  Have a broad awareness of the role of agriculture in global society.
9.  Understand the advantages and disadvantages of different approaches to food production.
10.  Understand the principles of food marketing and sales.
11.  Understand the principles of postharvest food storage and pest management.
12.  Be able to communicate effectively verbally, including being able to prepare and deliver effective scientific papers and presentations.
13.  Be able to conduct a competent literature search, including a search for primary literature, and also including the ability to find and assimilate information that will broaden understanding of subject areas by accessing material that is not specifically taught in class. 
14.  Be able to handle multiple tasks and deadline pressures.
15.  Be able to work effectively with individuals from diverse cultures.
16.  Have strong professional ethics and integrity.
17.  Understand the importance of developing leadership skills.
18.  Be able to work effectively in teams.
19.  Have a working knowledge of SI (metric) units.



