SPAN 56401 - Spanish Sociolinguistics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course addresses the linguistic variation found at all linguistic levels of Spanish (e.g., phonetics, morphology, syntax) that is explained through social variation (e.g., socio-economic
status, race, gender). Regional varieties of Spanish in Latin America, the U.S., and Peninsular societies will be studied. Related topics are style and identity, language attitudes, discourse analysis, and pragmatics. All classes will be conducted in Spanish. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Define and express main understandings about language, the study of linguistics, and language variation.
2.  Analyze and discuss specific examples of Spanish variation analyzed through use of various methods.
3.  Identify and evaluate the pros and cons of various sociolinguistic methods of research.
4.  Reflect on the relationships among social factors, language, diversity, and power in society.
5.  Use previous investigations to demonstrate the need for additional research in a specific area, thereby identifying a research topic.
6.  Consider one's own perspective of language use in social settings and reflect on any changes in that perspective that resulted from interaction with the course.
7.  Speak, read, write, and comprehend Spanish to communicate about the course topics.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-SPAN 56401 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
SPAN
36100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
SPAN
36200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



