ENGL 22900 - Creole Languages And Cultures

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces the concept of pidgin and creole languages across the world, with a focus on English-based pidgins and creoles. It addresses their geographical distribution and some of their cultural manifestations such as music, food and literature on both sides of the Atlantic. The course presents a general view of the historical events that led to the formation of creole languages and to the development of the African diaspora. We will consider different varieties of creole languages and (their) cultures including English-based creoles in West Africa such as Kru (Liberia and Sierra Leone), Nigerian Pidgin and Cameroonian Pidgin; in the Caribbean such as Jamaican, San Andreas, Nicaraguan and Limonense, contrasting them with the Spanish-based creole Palenquero; and the three most predominant creoles in the U.S. - Louisiana Creole, Gullah and Hawaii Creole, to understand their characteristics and their history. We will explore the ways in which the languages manifest in the music and literature of the contexts where they are spoken. Finally, we will consider the African diaspora as a fundamental thread that ties (English-based) creole languages and peoples together. In exploring these issues, the course will draw on a variety of theoretical concepts and traditions from sociolinguistics, creole studies and African American studies. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: English 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the cultural and linguistic legitimacy and importance of creole languages in the world.
2.  Describe general historical events that led to the development and origin of creole languages.
3.  Distinguish general cultural and grammatical features in creole languages that differ from non-creole languages.
4.  Show how individuals use creole languages in literature and music.
5.  Identify attitudes towards creole languages, the language's relationship to the African diaspora, and its relationship to linguistic diversity in North America.




