ENGR 30500 - Fundamentals Of Innovation Theory And Practice

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide students with initial exposure to the fundamental patterns, mindsets, behaviors, attributes, tools, and methods employed in the innovative activity of individuals and organizations.  Emphasis is placed on understanding and effectively utilizing techniques to systematically drive innovation that are drawn from the fields of business, design, problem-solving, engineering, and the social sciences.  Lecture, in-class small group activities, and individual and team assignments are employed across an array of contemporary socio-technical challenges to provide students with the opportunity to apply conveyed theory and methods to rigorously structure problems, understand involved stakeholders, utilize innovation motifs and analogical reasoning to develop robust views of potential solutions spaces, tailor solution design to stakeholder context, consider the full suite of functional, social, and emotional dimensions that could influence solution prioritization, and document and systematically assess underlying solution assumptions to iterate toward a viable and sustainable forward looking plan that could achieve target outcomes. This course counts toward, serves as a required entry course for, the College of Engineering Minor in Innovation and Transformational Change. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop working knowledge of established innovation forms and motifs.
2.  Demonstrate ability to link innovation motifs to specific classes of problems.
3.  Understand, and be able to pursue, the core aspects of an end-to-end innovation process.
4.  Recognize the mental models, mindsets and behaviors of innovators.
5.  Gain awareness of the approaches various forms of organizations take to systematically innovate.
6.  Acquire leadership and communication skills through teamwork, oral presentations, and written deliverables.




