PHIL 40300 - Moral Psychology And Climate Change

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course investigates the ethical challenges posed by climate change in conjunction with the deep cognitive and motivational factors that shape our individual and collective responses to it. Current research on human moral psychology is examined, drawing on work from a range of disciplines. Ethical theories concerning the unique moral challenges posed by a threat that spans national borders and human generations are considered. Strategies for addressing climate change that try to avoid our common cognitive foibles, and to leverage what we know about human moral capacities for collective action, are examined. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the structure, thesis statement, and main lines of argumentation in written work of philosophers and psychologists, and also to analyze the arguments by breaking them down into their component parts, and formulating their own objections.
2.  Discuss a wide variety of issues and sources surrounding moral psychology, from philosophers, psychologists, biologists, economists and anthropologists; they will develop this ability by summarizing and commenting on the assigned readings in weekly blog posts.
3.  Compare the threat raised by climate change to other existential threats by reporting on the way different kinds of threats are processed cognitively.
4.  Appraise the strengths and weaknesses of different strategies for addressing climate change, as assessed from the point of view of the state of the art understanding of human cognition and moral motivation; they will write a research paper that assesses the pros and cons of such strategies.
5.  Identify common cognitive blind spots, predictable irrationalities, and motivational hurdles, and will be able to use this to appreciate the scope of the collective action problems associated with climate change; they will develop these skills by reading academic texts devoted to these issues. 




