VCS 86002 - Small Animal Emergency And Critical Care II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide an intensive 3-week experiential clinical rotation that is focused on small animal emergency and critical care.  The student will participate in receiving, triaging, evaluating emergency cases as well as monitoring and treating critically ill small animal patients admitted to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital.  There will be a focus on providing additional opportunities for the student to participate in and perform advanced critical care techniques.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Teach and encourage the students to maximally utilize the "Veterinary Team" to provide efficient and effective quality veterinary care in emergency situations.
2.  Help the students develop an understanding of physiologic and pathophysiologic principles as related to emergency and critical care patients.
3.  Teach the students the principles and proper execution of patient triage.
4.  Help the students develop an understanding of the depth and diversity of the clientele and types of cases seen in emergency situations.
5.  Teach the students to appropriately assess an emergent or trauma patient as well as formulate and implement a diagnostic and therapeutic plan for the emergent or trauma patient.
6.  Teach the students to appropriately assess the critical care patient as well as formulate and adjust diagnostic and therapeutic plans for those critical care patients.
7.  Teach the students the principles and skills associated with various monitoring modalities associated with emergency and critical care.
8.  Teach the students client communication skills utilized during emergency situations or when discussing critical care patients.
9.  Teach the students the practical elements related to providing cost effective, efficient and quality veterinary care for emergency patients.
10.  Teach the students the principles and skills associated with various emergency and critical care procedures and techniques.
11.  Teach the students to effectively utilize the problem oriented medical record format as it applies to the emergency patient to facilitate appropriate and thorough documentation and communication.
12.  Teach the students to pursue case related information or a topic in appropriate depth using appropriate resources and to effectively communicate and apply this knowledge.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  VCS 86001 Minimum Grade of D-


