SLHS 57401 - Hearing Aids II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The focus of this course is on the evolving technology in hearing aids with an emphasis on the information students will need to make efficacious clinical decisions not only for the hearing aids of today but also for the hearing aids of tomorrow.  For each of the hearing aid features that are discussed, we review (1) the need or potential benefit to the patient, (2) the engineering behind the feature, (3) research supporting its efficacy and effectiveness, (4) its limitations, and (5) how to conduct routine clinical measurements to document its functioning. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Speech, Lang and Hearing Sci 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate critically manufacturers' claims by developing an understanding of the mechanisms, advantages, and disadvantages of different hearing aid features.
2.  Select the most cost effective hearing aid technology for your patients.
3.  Inform patients, families, other appropriate individuals, and professionals the reasons of choosing the hearing aid features for a patient, and how to use these advanced features effectively.
4.  Perform appropriate tests to check hearing aid features and assess the functionality of these features.
5.  Attain knowledge and thinking skills to understand and evaluate new hearing aid features.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Spch Lang Hear Sc/Gerontol

      Speech/Language/Hearing Scienc


Prerequisites:

GR-SLHS 57401 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
SLHS
56400


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
)



