VCS 88602 - Clinical Veterinary Services At Centaur Equine Specialty Hospital

Credit Hours: 3.00.  In this 3-week rotation students will assist the staff with diagnosis and treatment of sports-related conditions including lameness diagnosis and treatment, evaluation and treatment of upper respiratory diseases, and diagnosis and treatment of a variety of surgical conditions such as lacerations and traumatic injuries to the musculoskeletal system.  Students will assist in advanced diagnostic imaging including nuclear imaging and CT imaging with a unit that allows horses to be imaged while standing. A dynamic endoscope is available for use on the track to evaluate upper respiratory disease while the horse is exercising.  Students will preform lameness examinations under guidance of the staff clinicians and will be expected to participate in after-hours emergencies.  Rounds will be held daily when horses are hospitalized. The caseload is not limited to racing Thoroughbred horse but includes a diverse population of sport horses including Standard bred racehorses, working Quarter Horses, and hunter-jumper and dressage horses. Typically offered Fall Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Become proficient in performing physical examinations, localizing lesions, generating differential diagnoses, and selecting an appropriate treatment plan for horses presented to the hospital with lameness and other sports medicine conditions.
2.  Become familiar with the indications and application of advanced diagnostic imaging modalities.
3.  Able to diagnose and create a treatment plan for common sports related injuries.
4.  Learn to integrate knowledge to provide patient care, including medical management, preoperative, surgical, and postoperative care of client-owned horses.  This includes principles of analgesia, surgical treatment and exercise limitations and /or rehabilitation.
5.  Develop greater knowledge, clinical judgment, technical skills, and diagnostic capabilities that enable management of more complex cases of sport horses.
6.  Learn numerous aspects of sport horse medicine including regional anesthesia, intra-articular anesthesia and intra-articular medications.
7.  Observe procedures, such as orthopedic and respiratory surgeries, under both sedation with local anesthesia and under general anesthesia thereby expanding their knowledge on surgical treatment of sports injuries.
8.  Scrub in to assist surgeons on elective surgical cases and emergency conditions such as lacerations when feasible based upon procedures being performed.
9.  Learn and master bandaging and administration of medications orally, intravenously, and intramuscularly.
10.  Practice teamwork and professionalism through interactions with faculty/clinicians, colleagues, technicians, and horse owners.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


