MGMT 57000 - Spreadsheet Modeling And Simulation

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Covers up-to-date and practical spreadsheet modeling tools, which can be applied to a wide variety of business problems in finance, marketing, and operations. Consists of simulation modeling techniques to analyze risk and uncertainties in business environment, optimization techniques to determine the best managerial actions under internally- and/or externally-imposed constraints, and real-world examples and cases to demonstrate broad applications of spreadsheet modeling and simulations in manufacturing and service operations, supply chain systems, yield management, asset dynamics, option pricing, etc.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the most likely description of the uncertainty in future business with data analysis techniques, such as Pivot Table, PivotChart, fitting probabilities to data, etc.
2.  Use deterministic and stochastic optimization techniques to determine the best managerial actions under internally- and/or externally-imposed constraints.
3.  Analyze the risk and uncertainty in business environment and process with simulation modeling techniques.
4.  Review and criticize peer's participation in and contribution to group work.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-MS

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Management-PHD

      Org Behav and HR Mgmt-MS

      Management-MBA

      Management-MSIA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 57000 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
67000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
MGMT
67100


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



