PHRM 83600 - Biochemistry For Pharmaceutical Sciences II

Credit Hours: 2.00. This course provides instruction in biochemistry that builds on basic knowledge by presenting content on advanced aspects of human biochemistry for students in pharmaceutical sciences. The content emphasizes the integration of biochemical knowledge and the application of biochemical understanding to medically relevant situations including disease etiology, medical diagnosis, disease research, drug discovery, drug and toxin mechanisms of action, and mechanism of drug metabolism. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understanding and knowledge of biochemistry to an advanced level and to increase the ability to apply that understanding and knowledge to pharmaceutical sciences and the practice of pharmacy. 
2.  Advanced understanding of biochemistry includes integration of multiple areas of metabolism in the causation of disease and in physiologic homeostasis; biochemical signal transduction paradigms and concepts; the basis of complex biotechnology methods for disease diagnosis and disease research (recombinant DNA, proteomics, genomics, metabolomics), and development of experimental therapeutics (gene transfer, reverse genetics, siRNA); and advanced aspects of molecular transport, membrane function, enzyme kinetics, and the enzymology of drug metabolism. 
3.  Application of biochemical understanding and knowledge includes understanding the molecular basis of many idopathic and acquired metabolic disease, of inborn disorders of metabolism, of diseases of aberrant molecular signaling, and of diseases of aberrant molecular transport. It also includes the mechanisms of DNA damage and repair and the mechanisms of action of anti-metabolites and of synthetic therapies for metabolic disorders.
4.  Demonstrate proficient knowledge of each of the content areas presented in this course, as well as demonstrate understanding of the concepts in each content area presented in this course ta is sufficient for accurate application of those concepts to novel situations. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Pharmacy-BS

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


