ENGR 50000 - Global Design Team V

Credit Hours:  0.00 to 3.00.  Global Design Team brings together undergraduate and graduate students from different disciplines, inside and outside of the College of Engineering to design solutions to solve real-world problems over the course of one academic semester.  Depending on the size and scope of the project, teams may range from one to twenty students under the advisement of a faculty member.  GDTs partner student teams with non-governmental organizations, businesses and/or other research institutions in international development projects.  Approval for registration is granted based on an application process that takes into consideration previous design experience, level of interest in the topic and GPA.  Permission of Department required.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  An awareness of varying regulations, codes of practice, standards, technical specifications testing/inspection procedures, environmental regulations, and systems of measurement between countries and regions.
2.  Familiarity with the concept of a "global product platform".
3.  Ability to apply familiar concepts to unfamiliar, real-world problems.
4.  Ability to use design tools to solve engineering problems.
5.  Ability to adapt to cultural norms in a professional arena and act appropriately.
6.  Ability to make ethical and socially responsible decisions in the context of a culture divergent from my own.
7.  Ability to analyze problems from a different cultural frame of reference.
8.  Ability to communicate professionally in a culturally-appropriate manner.
9.  Ability to practice social and cultural responsibility, e.g. resource sustainability.
10.  Proficiency in a second language.
11.  Ability to be cross-culturally adaptable/flexible.
12.  Ability to contribute to a culturally-diverse team.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


