EDPS 61801 - Intellectual & Neuropsychological Assessment

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is designed to expose students to the theory and practice of intellectual and neuropsychological assessment. Students will receive instruction on the theoretical, psychometric, and best practice foundations of these types of assessment in the context of a lecture component, which will be followed by laboratory time in which students will gain experience in administering and scoring relevant tests. Although the WAIS-IV and WISC-IV will be the primary foci of this course, other tests of achievement, cognitive ability, and neuropsychological functioning will be covered. Students will also (a) gain experience in preparing written reports of their interpretations of assessment results, (b) develop an understanding of the history and development of cognitive ability and neuropsychological tests, and (c) explore implications for intellectual and neuropsychological assessment with diverse populations. Permission of instructor required. Prerequisite: EDPS 53300, B-. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop an understanding of the theoretical, historical, and psychometric foundations of intellectual and neuropsychological assessment.
2.  Develop advanced knowledge of the administration, scoring, and interpretation of the major tests of cognitive ability (i.e., WAIS-IV, WISC-IV), and identify strengths and weaknesses of each.
3.  Develop understanding of the ethical and multicultural issues associated with intellectual and neuropsychological assessment.
4.  Demonstrate ability to select assessment tools appropriate to examinees' developmental and ability levels.
5.  Demonstrate competence in reporting results and interpretation of assessment results in written form.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


