MET 52700 - Technology From A Global Perspective

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introduction to the challenges faced by the practicing technologist when working and interacting with international technical personnel, both here and abroad, including history, standards, education, and practice of technology outside the United States. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Awareness and comprehension of cross-cultural factors necessary for international professional practice in technology.
2.  Effective research strategies that access what is known about technology development, usage and impact from a global perspective.
3.  Knowledge and skill in researching and reporting cultural factors affecting business practices in a variety of independent nation states.
4.  Knowledge of procedures, regulations and practices regarding international business.
5.  Research skills to identify the natural and technology resources of countries.
6.  An ability to contrast the impact of technology infrastructure and use of technology in developed countries to what occurs in underdeveloped countries.
7.  Knowledge of the concept and application of "Appropriate Technology".
8.  Knowledge of the historical development of technology in various modern nations.
9.  Informed judgments regarding the influences of cultural and political environments of countries and their technological development.
10.  Awareness of the major changes related to current and/or emerging technology in the leading industrial nations of the world.
11.  Understanding of the methodologies employed for the effective introduction of technologies into new country or cultural settings.
12.  Knowledge of selected International Technology Standards and organizations.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


