AMST 10100 - America And The World

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines the evolution of American culture as the United States transitioned from a relatively isolated country at the end of the 19th century to an active shaper of a global community by the 21st century. We will examine ways in which American Culture shaped and was shaped by international relationships that transcend nation states. We will explore reactions to, and the results of, the spread of American culture both inside and outside the United States. By studying traditional cultural forms like art, music, design, literature, film, and technology the course will build a foundation from which to understand the configuration of American culture. Yet the course will also emphasize American culture expression, that in the forms of television, advertising, sport, cartoons, social media, video games, fashion, food, drugs, and automobiles, have transcended the geographical boundaries of the United States to engage in global interplays of material cultural exchange.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Interdis Studies 


Course Attributes: Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, Lower Division, GTC-Written Communication, UC-Written Communication 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the major themes and issues prompted by the term American Culture.
2.  Assess the multiple processes by which people express, institutionalize, celebrate, and contest American identities.
3.  Appreciate the cultural diversity of the American experience, especially in terms of class, ethnicity, gender, and race.
4.  Recognize important issues that occur among peoples in an increasingly interconnected and interdependent world.
5.  Develop the skills to analyze aspects of American culture using interdisciplinary source materials, research methodologies, and intellectual approaches.
6.  Reach independent conclusions based on that analysis, and communicate them effectively verbally and in writing.




