ABE 30100 - Numerical And Computational Modeling In Biological Engineering

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introduction to principles of analysis, setup, and modeling of biological systems using fundamental principles of engineering. Development of mathematical and numerical models to solve steady state and transient processes involving material and energy balances and utilizing thermodynamic, transport, and kinetic reaction principles, and economics in biological engineering systems.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the purpose and structure of critical arguments.
2.  Develop skills to analyze written, visual critical arguments on contemporary issues.
3.  Develop skills to create critical arguments.
4.  Understand the structural similarities between critical arguments and quantitative modeling.
5.  Understand ethical behavior in academic setting.
6.  Understand process of how to develop mathematical models involved with food and biological phenomena.
7.  Understand the types of models and their purpose/utility from an engineering context.
8.  Understand the application of the numerical modeling principles and techniques of modeling and solutions.
9.  Understand the limitations related to computational accuracy/error and statistical precision of numerical modeling.
10.  Develop skills to create numerical models involving biological engineering systems using mechanistic concepts, such as reaction kinetics, transport phenomena, and thermodynamics.
11.  Develop skills for creating computational tools to quantify/evaluate numerical models.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ABE 37000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CS 15900 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  MA 30300 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  MA 26500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  MA 26600 Minimum Grade of D-)   )


