MGMT 56900 - Ethical And Sustainable Supply Chain Management

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  This course provides students with knowledge and skills for building and analyzing ethical and sustainable practices in supply chains, taking a holistic view of the interaction between businesses, the environment, and society. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Run life-cycle analysis (LCA) and interpret findings.
2.  Analyze product and process performance through life-cycle thinking.
3.  Understand the Tragedy of the Commons in the business context and identify the underlying reasons.
4.  Assess pros and cons of various solutions to the Tragedy of the Commons problem in business context.
5.  Identify and explain various product stewardship practices and their pros and cons.
6.  Identify innovative business models, such as Servicizing, based on sustainable use of products and services.
7.  Compare and contrast traditional supply chain with closed-loop supply chain.
8.  Compare and contrast different types of contracts and practices for incentivizing compliance with ethical and sustainable conduct throughout the supply chain.
9.  Identify and analyze opportunities and constraints in building ethical and sustainable supply chains.
10.  Compare and contrast alternative ways of complying with environmental and social regulations such as carbon trading.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-PHD

      Management-PHD

      Management-MS

      Management-MSIA

      Economics-MS

      Management-MBA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  MGMT 66000 Minimum Grade of D-


