ECON 31200 - Energy Economics: Competition, Regulatory, And Environmental Policy

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will introduce you to energy economics, divided into two broad categories - fuels (oil and natural gas) and electricity - and across three different areas of applied microeconomic theory: competition policy, regulatory policy, and environmental policy. We will analyze economic regulation in both fuels and electricity, developing the economic theory of regulation and exploring how regulation affects the decisions and behavior of regulated firms differently in the two different types of energy industries. We will also develop economic models to analyze the environmental consequences of energy use.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and explain the economic issues involved in competition policy and regulation and use models to analyze competition and regulation questions in energy.
2.  Apply the economic reasoning and models learned in competition policy, regulatory policy, and environmental policy to analyze meaningful questions in oil and natural gas and in electricity.
3.  Discuss and analyze the challenges that innovation, technological change, and networks present for competition policy and regulation in energy industries.
4.  Describe and explain the economic issues and theoretical models involved in environmental economics and environmental regulation.
5.  Analyze the environmental effects of the generation and consumption of energy, particularly in air pollution and global warming.
6.  Discuss the economic, environmental, and policy challenges and opportunities that innovation and technological change present, particularly in renewable energy.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Economics-BS

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BA


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of C-


