NUTR 52200 - Advanced Nutrition Communications

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Provides advanced training and skill development to effectively implement and evaluate food and nutrition communication to lay and professional audiences through oral, written, and mass media channels. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nutrition Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Critique primary and secondary nutrition research articles.
2.  Interpret the results of four (4) nutrition and dietetics related studies using primary data for members of the lay public.
3.  Assess the validity findings of four (4) nutrition and dietetics related studies using primary data for dietetics and nutrition professionals.
4.  Interpret the results of four (4) nutrition and dietetics related studies using secondary data for members of the lay public.
5.  Assess the validity findings of four (4) nutrition and dietetics related studies using secondary data for dietetics and nutrition professionals.
6.  Prepare and delivery a presentation to discuss and explain their critiques.
7.  Compare and contrast the credibility of nutrition communication research.
8.  Generate answers to assessment questions related to three (3) articles on nutrition communication research.
9.  Rate the credibility of each of the three (3) articles on nutrition communication research.
10.  Complete one (1) assessment generated by their peers.
11.  Develop and design an online blog.
12.  Create a blog providing a scientific critique and evidence-based recommendations in response to a trending diet.
13.  Compose a tweet to market and promote their blog.
14.  Formulate a grant to improve the nutrition communication presentations for the undergraduate course.
15.  Develop a mock grant proposal to obtain funding to purchase props and educational materials to use in nutrition communication presentations in NUTR 424.
16.  Prepare and deliver a presentation on their proposal.
17.  Discern various types of ethical issues that exist with the use of social media in dietetics.
18.  Complete and solve case study scenarios related to ethics and social media in the field of dietetics and nutrition.
19.  Design an evaluation plan for a social media marketing plan.
20.  Employ measures of social engagement to produce an evaluate tool to assess impact of #NUTR522 on Twitter.
21.  Prepare and deliver a presentation to discuss and explain their plan to their classmates.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


