GS 12000 - Summer Start Seminar

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Summer Start students, as incoming freshmen, will learn the ins and outs of higher education - more specifically of Purdue University - and how to effectively manage their time and create successful personal habits. Whether it is learning the university course management system, understanding the bus routes, or navigating the world of financial aid, this seminar will prepare incoming students for success at Purdue's campus. Additionally, students will go through a series of lectures focused on creating successful habits, including, but not limited to: time management, study skills, cultural awareness, goal setting, and interpersonal communication. Typically offered Summer.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Practice Study Observation, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Office of The Provost 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe extra- and co-curricular campus resources.
2.  Identify how to utilize extra- and co-curricular campus resources as related to personal and academic success.
3.  Recognize the importance of time management and study skills through the testimonials and suggested strategies of upperclassmen and faculty.
4.  Compare the unique nuances of the culture of a collegiate environment vs. high school environment.
5.  Select strategies to aid in increasing their comfort as they navigate the transition between the cultures of a collegiate environment vs. high school environment.
6.  Identify resources for identity development and support on campus.
7.  Select healthy and productive activities as a means to relieve stress.
8.  Demonstrate effective communication skills with faculty, staff and peers.
9.  List their individual strengths.
10.  Recognize the value their unique strengths brings to relationships with others.




