VCS 80910 - Food Animal Medicine

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course focuses on the major infectious, metabolic, and parasitic diseases of ruminants, camelids, swine, poultry and other avian flocks. The pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of these conditions or syndromes will be reviewed. Additionally, the course will cover proper management, including vaccinations and animal husbandry, to prevent the development of these conditions. Typically offered Fall Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  List the names of the common diseases of ruminants, the causal agent(s) or predisposing factors, and underlying mechanisms associated with these diseases.
2.  Create a differential diagnosis list and select suitable diagnostic procedures for problems in ruminants/camelids.
3.  Describe management changes or therapeutic methods that are used to treat and control common diseases of ruminants.
4.  Discuss the important issues of food safety, quality assurance, and health regulations as they relate to the ruminant industries.
Swine
5.  List the names of the common diseases of swine and their causal agent(s), predisposing factors, and where possible, underlying mechanisms
6.  Develop a differential diagnosis list and select a suitable diagnostic plan to determine the definitive diagnosis.
7.  Describe management changes or therapeutic methods to prevent, control, and treat common swine diseases/problems.
Poultry
8.  Provide students with a basic practical knowledge of avian medicine.  After completing this course, students are expected to be able to:
9.  Identify the economical and public health diseases of flocks.
10.  Identify the proper diagnostic tests needed to diagnose each disease.
11.  Explain the economic and public health consequences of each disease.
12.  Design treatment and prevention strategies for each disease.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


