PUBH 57000 - Healthcare In The United States

Credit Hours: 3.00.  By the end of this course, you will have a strong foundational understanding of the American healthcare system, along with the basic financial and management skills to make better, well-informed decisions that improve the cost and quality of the healthcare you or your enterprise provides. Understanding the evolution of today's system, form the foundation for subsequent learning and leadership. Landmark legislation will also be reviewed including: Hill-Burton Act, Social Security Act, HMO Act, Balanced Budget Act of 1997, PPACA, ARRA. We will focus on a range of healthcare services, including acute care, post-acute care and senior health and housing, ambulatory surgery centers, behavioral health, and medical insurance companies. Permission in instructor required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Presentation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate the current strengths and weakness of the American healthcare system.
2.  Understand the evolution of healthcare during the 20th and 21st centuries.
3.  Understand methods to analyze basic financial and management situations driving to improved cost and quality of healthcare.
4.  Analyze landmark legislation including Hill-Burton Act, Social Security Act, HMO Act, Balanced Budget Act of 1997, PPACA, and AARA.
5.  Evaluate the intersection of healthcare services including acute care, post-acute care, senior health and housing, ambulatory surgery centers, behavioral health, and medical insurance companies.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


