BIOL 22100 - Introduction To Microbiology

Credit Hours: 4.00.  The isolation, growth, structure, function, heredity, identification, classification, and ecology of microorganisms; their role in nature; and significance to man. Not available for credit toward graduation for majors in the Department of Biological Sciences. 
CTL: ILS 1505 Microbiology for the Health Sciences

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Core Transfer Library, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
4.  Be familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism.
5.  Understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism.
6.  Understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes.
7.  Understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability.
8.  Understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal levels.
9.  Understand how evolutionary forces influence organisms to produce adaptations.
10.  Exhibit proficiency in the physiology, biochemistry, and genetics of bacteria including diversity, metabolism, and gene expression regulation as well as key metabolic control mechanisms.
11.  Be familiar with taxonomic, ecological, and phylogenetic relationships among microorganisms including biogeochemical nutrient cycling, microbial diversity, and the biotechnological application of microbes to address environmental and energy problems.
12.  Able to demonstrate knowledge of how evolutionary forces impact and shape microbial function and activity.
13.  Acquire knowledge of disease-causing microorganisms that includes an understanding of humoral, cell-mediated and non-specific immune responses, as well as the molecular basis for bacterial and viral pathogenesis.
14.  Able to demonstrate technical competency in basic microbiological laboratory techniques and common molecular biology techniques that exploit the use of microbes.
15.  Able to demonstrate an understanding of the scientific method including hypothesis generation and testing, data collection, analysis, and interpretation.
16.  Demonstrate an understanding of prokaryotic cell structure and the major physiological processes of microorganisms that are critical for metabolism, function, and utilization of ecological niches.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 11100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 12100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 13100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 20300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30100 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  BIOL 10800 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BIOL 10900 Minimum Grade of D-)   ) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 10901 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D-)


