EDPS 56510 - Collaboration And Transition Practices In Special Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Three modules related to collaboration and transition practices in special education are addressed.  Included are theoretical frameworks and assessment for consultation and collaboration involving paraeducators and families.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand consultation theory and its application for decision-making in special and general education contexts. 
2.  Recognize conditions that strengthen or inhibit effective use of collaborative consultation. 
3.  Exhibit self-understanding and constructive use of individual differences for school-based collaboration in culturally diverse settings. 
4.  Demonstrate skills in facilitating family partnerships with schools to serve student needs. 
5.  Apply communication skills of effective verbal and non-verbal communication, listening, avoiding communication roadblocks, dealing with resistance, being appropriately assertive, and resolving conflicts. 
6.  Use problem-solving techniques in collaborating with professional colleagues, parents and related and ancillary personnel to provide for students’ learning needs. 
7.  Develop self-assessment techniques and tools for evaluating and improving consultation, collaboration, and co-teaching skills. 
8.  Formulate strategies for co-planning and co-teaching to serve students’ special needs. 
9.  Explain responsibilities and strategies for supervising and planning with paraeducators, and for initiating involvement of school administrators in collaborative efforts. 
10.  Demonstrate awareness of need for organizing interrelated agencies in their roles as providers of the array of services required for students’ special needs. 
11.  Cite key legislation that has impacted career and transition programs and services for youth and adults with disabilities. (Standard 2) 
12.  Explain theories and stages of life-long career development and how they impact the career decision-making process for individuals with disabilities. (Standard 2) 
13.  Identify methods, strategies, and materials used for instruction to facilitate career education, including participation in the IEP process. (Standard 2) 
14.  Explain theoretical models on which family intervention is predicated. (Standard 2) 
15.  Demonstrate an understanding of the impact a child with a disability has on the family, family dynamics, coping strategies, finances, and family communication and interaction patterns (Standards 1, 2) 
16.  Identify and define issues and strategies related to empowerment, and self-advocacy that are crucial to the successful career development of individuals with disabilities. (Standards 2, 3) 
17.  Develop an awareness of community resources available in career transition planning for students with disabilities at the elementary, middle, and secondary levels. (Standard 2) 
18.  Discuss issues related to parental involvement in career development and the educational process for youth and adults with disabilities. (Standards 1, 3) 
19.  Identify and describe services, supports, and resources available in post-secondary and employment settings for youth and adults with disabilities. (Standard 2) 
20.  Identify and define the issues related to interagency collaboration in the career and transition planning process for youth and adults with disabilities. (Standard 2) 




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


