PHRM 86200 - Institutional Pharmacy Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experience

Credit Hours: 4.00.  A 4-credit hour required experiential course in the third year of the professional Doctor of Pharmacy program.  Students learn basic institutional pharmacy operations and sterile product compounding. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Clinic 1 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform basic functions and skills in an actual practice setting.
2.  Document a minimum of 160 hours of performance-based experience in an institutional pharmacy.
3.  Demonstrate professional and ethical standards of conduct.
4.  Reflect on the degree of professionalism displayed by pharmacy practitioners at the site.
5.  Recognize and describe exemplary pharmacy operations and dispensing practices.
6.  Debate the advantages and disadvantages of a variety of career options in institutional practice.
7.  Self-assess learning within the scope of the experience.
8.  Conduct an effective, conversational interview with a pharmacist.
9.  Discuss and describe in writing the institutional pharmacist's role.
10.  Discuss and describe in writing common problems/barriers that pharmacists encounter in the workplace.
11.  Discuss and describe in writing important aspects, advantages, and disadvantages of a career in institutional pharmacy.
12.  Reflect on new information learned.
13.  Describe the institutional pharmacy work environment and staffing.
14.  Describe the steps involved in the medication order filling and dispensing process.
15.  Formulate an opinion on the quality of patient care.
16.  Review common causes of medication errors and methods of prevention.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 84500 Minimum Grade of C-


