CHM 12901 - General Chemistry With A Biological Focus

Credit Hours: 5.00.  An accelerated and comprehensive one-semester general chemistry course that emphasizes principles that are important in biological systems. This course is designed to cover the essential elements of general chemistry traditionally covered in a two semester series.  Topics to be covered include:  Stoichiometry and chemical equations; atomic theory and structure; periodic properties; electronegativity; ionic and covalent bonding; non-covalent forces; bond energies; Lewis structures; molecular geometry; gases, liquids, and solids; solutions, quantitative equilibria in aqueous solution; acid/base chemistry and buffers; introductory thermodynamics; oxidation-reduction; electrochemical and membrane potential; colligative properties; chemical and enzyme kinetics; nuclear chemistry; coordination chemistry. One year of high school chemistry is required.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Chemistry 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, UC-Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Develop an understanding of universal physical laws as they apply in chemistry.
2. Develop an understanding of the scientific process.
3. Develop the ability to document scientific information and experimental data and to make quantitative/structural measurements and interpret results.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Biochemistry

      Biochemistry (Biology)

      Biochemistry Honors

      Biology

      Chemical Biology & Biochem

      Cell, Molec & Devel Biol

      Ecol, Evol & Environ Biol

      Genetics

      Health and Disease

      Microbiology Honors

      Microbiology

      Neurobiology & Physiology

      Pharmaceutical Sciences

      Science Education


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MA 15900 Minimum Grade of D or Undergraduate level  MA 15800 Minimum Grade of D or Undergraduate level  MA 15400 Minimum Grade of D or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 23100 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of D [may be taken concurrently] or  ALEKS Math Assessment 085 or  SAT Mathematics 650 or  ACT Math 29 or  SATR Math 670


