PHRM 45600 - Pharmaceutical Care Of Diabetes

Credit Hours: 1.00.  The purpose of this course is for students to obtain a comprehensive knowledge of the pharmaceutical care of diabetes. Students will participate in class discussions related to patient cases and learn about effective communication with patients with diabetes. In class discussions will expose the students to patient case scenarios in which they will gain an appreciation for the complexities involved with diabetes, construct evidence-based treatment plans, and enhance overall understanding of effective diabetes management. This course provides a platform for shaping future pharmacists into excellent caregivers for patients with diabetes. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Approximate the number of carbohydrates in a variety of foods.
2.  Recommend: a) Diabetes oral medication initiation doses and dose adjustments; b) Insulin initiation doses and dose adjustments; c) Non-insulin injectable initiation doses and dose adjustments; d) Individualized medication recommendation changes.
3.  Know the basic settings and methods for operating continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices.
4.  Identify patients with diabetes who would benefit from CGM.
5.  Initiate and titrate dosing for insulin injections and insulin pumps.
6.  Educate a patient with diabetes on effective insulin pump use.
7.  Know basic concepts surrounding the use of motivational interviewing for patients with diabetes.
8.  Describe different opportunities for pharmacists to become involved in diabetic care and processes for becoming a Certified Diabetes Educator (CDE) or Board-Certified in Advanced Diabetes Management (BC-ADM).
9.  Identify effective strategies to communicate with patients with diabetes.
10.  Identify the role of APPE students in a variety of settings relevant to patients with diabetes.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


