TLI 45580 - Human Resource Information Systems And People Analytics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This class surveys Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS) to understand how they facilitate communication processes, policy implementations and change management. Big data is transforming how firms recruit and develop talent and this course introduces concepts and methods for making better through people analytics. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Technology Ldrshp & Innovatn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Translate the origins of HR Information Technology to an organization; and infer the need to obtain involvement and commitment from others to set in place mechanisms to affect successful Human Resources Information System Programs and strategies.
2.  Develop an understanding of basic systems and the criteria for success in using HR software in organizations.
3.  Identify HR Information Systems trends.
4.  Detail various approaches to Human Resources Information systems design, selection and implementation and define characteristics of current Human Resource Information technology implementation strategies.
5.  Recognize HR Information System and its relationship with compliance with federal and state regulations/Laws.
6.  Explain benefits of new technologies in recruiting and training in individual development of employees.
7.  Describe and discuss the various HR Portal and associated programs and their associated values, costs, and benefits to the organization.
8.  Students will employ statistical software to conduct quantitative analyses, for example to predict the potential of applicants to improve hiring decisions or to evaluate the effectiveness of training and talent development programs.
9.  Students will learn how to manage the workforce and how to take advantage of analytics in their decision making process.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Human Resource Development


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  TLI 25500 Minimum Grade of B and Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of B-


