AT 11901 - Unmanned Aerial Systems: Safety And Risk Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course discusses the fundamental concepts of Safety and Risk Management and their application to UAS operations.  The course will provide insight into strategies for developing and implementing a formal safety management system (SMS) that effectively supports an organization's UAS operations. In addition, students will gain an understanding of ethical decision making and its relationship to safety. Laboratory exercises provide students practical application of this knowledge to various UAS operational scenarios, which includes utilizing SMS principles in assessing risks and developing appropriate mitigations. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Aviation & Transp Tech 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand and demonstrate the application of safety and risk management principles to UAS operations.
2.  Exemplify the UAS regulatory environment, which includes related regulatory approval and waiver processes.
4.  Develop normal and emergency operating procedures.
5.  Explain and understand industry and government regulations and standards governing the inspection, repair, and operation UAS.
6.  Understand and apply technical data sources to evaluate UAS airworthiness and system health, to include ground and flight testing, troubleshooting, maintenance and repair.
7.  Demonstrate the ability to plan and safely complete basic UAS missions that are regulatory compliant.
8.  Understand and demonstrate ethical decision making.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  AT 10901 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  AT 10900 Minimum Grade of D-


