TECH 52400 - Sustainability Analysis Assessment

Credit Hours: 3.00. Applied research project where students conduct a sustainability project under instructor guidance. Emphasis is on new developments relating to technical and operational aspects of sustainability as it applied in industry using triple bottom line evaluations. This course emphasizes a holistic approach to sustainability that includes environmental, economic, and social aspects as well as the impact of policy, standards and regulations on decision-making for sustainability. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and discuss multiple frameworks by which sustainability may be applied and evaluated. 
2.  Demonstrate knowledge of seminal works in sustainability models, assessments and measurements. 
3.  Evaluate the sustainability of a product or process.
4.  Independently design and implement sustainability improvements in a product or process.  
5.  Critically evaluate policies, standards and regulations in applied studies.
6.  Demonstrate the research knowledge and skills required to conduct an applied sustainability project.
7.  Prepare and present a major product demonstrating in-depth knowledge of the current state of the literature, major challenges and proposed solutions for a specific sustainability project. 




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-TECH 52400 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
TECH
52200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
TECH
52300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



