HIST 33300 - Science And Society In Western Civilization I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A survey of the main lines in the development of science and society in Western civilization from earliest times to Newton's discovery of gravitation. Beginning with prehistory and Egyptian and Mesopotamian civilizations, the course treats in more detail the Greeks and Romans. The course then considers science during the Middle Ages, examining the transmissions of ancient science and its incorporation into the body of Christian doctrines. The course concludes with the new efforts of physicians and astronomers to free their studies from the influence of the Church and antiquity, and the new accommodations between science and society during the Scientific Revolution. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: History 


Course Attributes: S General Education, GTC-Humanistic-Artistic, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Humanities, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine, interpret, and explain how personal, political, cultural economic, and social experiences and/or structures shaped the history of science and society.
2.  Analyze data using historical methodologies to evaluate causal arguments and analyze assertions, assumptions, and explanatory evidence related to the history of science and society.
3.  Investigate the diversity of human experience within Western culture, considering, for example, ethnicity, gender, language, race, religion, sexual orientation, age, culture, disability, and social class, and appreciate the contribution of different social groups in science and society.
4.  Identify and explain the major themes of the history of science and write about the role of science in society and social implications of science.



