ARAB 33000 - The Middle East On Film

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course offers an introduction to films produced in the Middle East and on Middle Eastern Cultures. In this class, we will view films from the Arab world, including North Africa, and the large Middle Eastern region. Parallel to film screening, students will read critical and analytical material that provide background as well as commentary and analysis of cultural and historical contexts on content of films and their making. The course will examine a series of topics such as identity politics, religious affiliation, gender, immigration, belonging, homeland and exile. We will also situate the films within the aesthetic traditions of production and reception and analyze how they provide critical perspectives and insights in central issues in the cultures of Middle Eastern cultures. The overarching goal of the class is to provide students with a solid understanding of the function of cinema and films in representation of the evolution and transformation of the cultures and societies of the region and the issues understanding of the function of cinema and films in representation of the evolution and transformation of the cultures and societies of the region and the issues central to how communal and individual identities in the Middle Eastern region are shaped. The class will also equip the students with skills to analyze meaning making and the role of technical aspects such as cinematography, body language, script, setting and acting in the creation of characters. All films will be screened with English subtitles.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times for a maximum of 6 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Assess formal and technical elements of Middle Eastern film cultures.
2.  Analyze how social and cultural themes are represented in visual means and through the screen.
3.  Identify and explain the important aspects of film making in the film industries of the region.
4.  Construct critical responses to how cinematic work uses aesthetics to mediate culture.
5.  Evaluate the role of films in articulating major shifts and movements in the cultures of the region.



