HTM 21200 - Management And Leadership In Hospitality And Tourism

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course addresses the basic principles of management and leadership. Students will be able to apply management principles of planning, organizing, directing, and controlling human and physical resources. Students will also identify key leadership skills including motivating employees, effective decision making, and business communication. Students will identify individual, team, and organizational behaviors necessary to effectively manage hospitality businesses.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the roles of managers and leaders in hospitality and tourism and the concepts of organizational efficiency and effectiveness.
2.  Identify and explain basic management principles of planning, organizing, directing and controlling as applied to the hospitality and tourism business.
3.  Identify basic leadership skills that effective managers in the hospitality and tourism industry possess, including business communication, motivation, decision making, and change management.
4.  Identify contemporary management and leadership issues facing the hospitality and tourism industry.
5.  Explain the basics of human behavior in organizations, including individual behavior and team dynamics.
6.  Discriminate between ethical and non-ethical behaviors on the part of individuals inside and outside the organization.
7.  Analyze the impacts of culture and diversity on organizations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


