IET 44500 - Strategic Supply Chain Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A course designed to build upon previous courses with subjects related to managing a distribution enterprise. Modules in sales management, financial analysis, strategic planning, logistics, purchasing, and the legalities of distributor and manufacturer relationships will be combined with case studies to provide students with practice in establishing policy and making decisions from the manager's point of view. Field trips may be required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop, evaluate, and implement business strategies needed to successfully manage supply chain operations.
2.  Describe a strategic planning model appropriate for use in supply chain operations.
3.  Apply concepts, models, and methods that are useful in strategic development.
4.  Apply analytics and techniques for strategic decision-making.
5.  Develop business evaluation and critical thinking skills.
6.  Describe the basic philosophies underlying ethical decision making.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  IT 43200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  TLI 41400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  IET 41400 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  IT 43400 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  TLI 44275 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  IET 44275 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


