BIOL 23000 - Biology Of The Living Cell

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introduction to modern cell biology for students who may not have taken a previous college course in biology. All students with the appropriate prerequisites are welcome, and this course will be of special interest to students from engineering, chemistry, physics and computer science. This course will provide a solid foundation in modern cell biology concepts for engineers and students from other disciplines.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
3.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way. 
4.  Students will be familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism. 
5.  Students will understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism. 
6.  Students will understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes. 
7.  Graduates will understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes. 
8.  Students will understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability. 
9.  Graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels. 
10. Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills by practicing biologists including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
11. Students who complete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions. 




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 10901 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 16200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 17300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MATH 16400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16900 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 17100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 18100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 22400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 23000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MATH 26100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 23200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16020 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MATH 16600 Minimum Grade of D-)


