HK 68300 - Patient Care Simulation In Athletic Training II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to refine psychomotor skills and apply specific athletic training proficiencies integrating cognitive concepts and skills into progressively higher-level practical application. Skill integration will be achieved through successful completion and evaluation of patient care scenarios with emphasis placed on clinical reasoning skills of the student while making point of care decisions. Permission of department required. Prerequisite: HK 56300 with a B- or higher. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate common orthopedic conditions of the axial and appendicular skeleton, formulate a differential diagnosis, and recommend appropriate treatment strategies.
2.  Evaluate patients with medical conditions involving the cardiovascular system, gastrointestinal system, dermatological system, endocrine system and determine a differential diagnosis with appropriate interventions, including potential for referral.
3.  Evaluate general medical conditions and common non-orthopedic conditions of the head and face and determine a differential diagnosis with appropriate interventions, including potential for referral.
4.  Screen a patients' general health and wellness, fitness, nutrition, gait, posture, and movement to address deficiencies in order to develop treatment strategies and referrals (where indicated).
5.  Design an overall program to include fitness and wellness, nutrition, and general injury prevention strategies (including ergonomics).
6.  Use baseline evaluation data of mobility, stability, strength, and balance to compose a therapeutic exercise program to address known deficits.
7.  Select and incorporate therapeutic modalities into the rehabilitation plan of care.
8.  Formulate a progressive rehabilitation plan using evidence-based interventions for common musculoskeletal injuries and conditions.
9.  Instruct a patient in corrective exercise and a home exercise program.
10.  Use patient and clinician oriented outcomes to make clinical decisions, including recommended interventions, activity progressions, and return to play decisions.
11.  Educate and instruct a patient on general health and wellness behaviors and in the program to address deficiencies identified on a comprehensive fitness evaluation.
12.  Communicate patient care status with stakeholders involved on the healthcare team (other providers, parents, coaches, administrators).


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


