NUR 62500 - History, Ethics, And Innovations In Health-Care Delivery Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Broadens and refines the student's view of the current health-care delivery system by providing an analysis from an historical perspective, of the forces that have shaped the system, including scientific discoveries, technological advances, social justice issues and the development of health professions and institutions.  Nursing knowledge is influenced by these multiple factors; thus, the course provides students with tools to lead others in meeting the many challenges the health-care system brings.  Achronological and topical format is used, which investigates policy and societal trends affecting health care, the nursing and medical professions, and professional practice.  Changes in the roles of health-care providers and consumers are assessed from economic, social, organizational, political, ethical, legal, and technological perspectives. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine the attributes of an effective and just health care system.
2.  Critique theoretical and historical research that describes, analyzes, and interprets the forces, events, and people that shaped the American health care system.
3.  Analyze the role of race, class, gender, ethnicity, and equity/inequity in the distribution of health care services for a variety of populations.
4.  Explore the growth of nursing and medical knowledge, science, and technology and their impact on the health care delivery system.
5.  Evaluate the development of modern hospitals and community and public health agencies.
6.  Analyze ethical problems faced by both providers and consumers of health care.
7.  Analyze future implications of the health care delivery system based on past and current political, ethical, and sociocultural issues.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice


