NUR 68500 - DNP Cognate Residence: Public Health/Homeland Security Practice II

Credit Hours:  3.00.  This is the second in a series of two courses that provides an opportunity to further explore a public health topic of interest under the direction of a faculty member.  The focus is on implementation of an evidence-based practice model and advanced application of evaluation techniques in establishing their effectiveness in improving community health outcomes.  Residency activities provide ongoing opportunities to refine research and evidence-based practice to expand the knowledge base needed for the development, implementation, and evaluation of programs to meet the public health needs of the community and systems of care.  Emphasis is on providing leadership in incorporating assessment of health needs of specific communities with risk assessment analysis to implement models to improve community outcomes.  Students assume a leadership role as they assess, plan, and evaluate the preparedness and response to mass casualty disasters or other public health concerns.  Residency sites may be local, state, national, and/or international settings.  Residency activities are selected by the students under the guidance of the faculty advisor and preceptor, DNP program director, and approved by the director of graduate programs in Nursing.  Prerequisite: NUR 68300.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Due to the individualization of this course, the student and faculty member outline specific objectives to meet the course objectives, activities and deliverables that will be completed at the end of this course.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


