HHS 40000 - Intercultural Learning In Health And Human Sciences - Lived Experiences

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00.  This course focuses on intercultural learning in health and human sciences through direct experiences in a foreign country, whose culture is unique as a whole yet diverse across its different regions. Students will be guided in cognitive and effective learning through observing the destination's culture and society and interacting with its people. By direct exposure to the local customs, health conditions, history, human relations, lifestyle, and religion as they travel across the foreign destination, students are expected to develop a deeper appreciation and empathy for cultural values and traditions that are different from their own. The course will emphasize the students' understanding of how individuals and communities can benefit from learning about others in improving their quality of life. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    1.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: College of Health & Human Sci 


Course Attributes: Internship, Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Report an increase in their intercultural openness and willingness to interact with people who are culturally different from themselves through daily program activities.
2.  Describe their own growing cultural self-awareness and report on cultural norms that shape their identity and biases.   
3.  Demonstrate curiosity about other cultures in relation to health conditions and human relations and begin to describe deeper interest in learning about additional cultures.
4.  Exhibit an appreciation of a sense of place defined by cultural values, traditions, customs, and history that are different from their own through hands-on and interactive activities in the settings of health and human sciences.
5.  Discover the impacts of political, economic, and environmental factors on the physical and subjective well-being of the local people as well as their overall quality of life.
6.  Identify and explain the key elements of interdependence required for the co-existence and human relations among peoples of different cultural backgrounds.
7.  Identify how biases, stereotypes, and perceptions are formed with regard to other cultural groups.
8.  Demonstrate self-confidence, travel-related skills, and a deeper appreciation for the increasingly interconnected world of many cultures.



