NUTR 31500 - Fundamentals Of Nutrition

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Basic principles of nutrition and their application in meeting nutritional needs during the life cycle.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nutrition Science 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize the "fundamentals of nutrition".
2.  Discuss substances in foods needed in adequate amounts for energy, growth, reproduction and health and explain the identity, acquisition, utilization, and excretion of nutrients.
3.  Explain the science of nutrition which includes the action, interaction, and balance of food, nutrients and other substances within food in relation to health and disease. 
4.  Describe nutrient ingestion, digestion, absorption, transport, metabolism, interaction, storage, and excretion.
5.  Show appropriate diet selection under different circumstances such as: different states of the life cycle, disease states, and in the prevention of chronic diseases. 
6.  Develop the groundwork for future courses where information learned in this course will be applied to the design of diet therapies or diet prescriptions, design of diet recommendations for general audiences, selection of our own diets, and understanding the mechanisms of action and interactions of nutrients.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 13100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 20400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 21400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30200 Minimum Grade of D-) or (Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D-)


