HTM 14100 - Financial Accounting For The Service Industries

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covers fundamental accounting principles and procedures applied to the hospitality and service industries. Topics include the uniform system of accounts, financial statements, special purpose journals, and subsidiary ledgers unique to the hospitality and service industries. This course also introduces financial statement analysis.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the correct application of debits and credits by analyzing transactions in the service industries in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
2.  Produce and explain financial statements to include income statement and balance sheet.
3.  Explain and complete accounting cycle in accordance with GAAP.
4.  Explain the principles of internal control and the role of ethics in financial reporting.
5.  Explain and demonstrate the accounting procedures for merchandising, inventories and cost of goods, payroll, and receivables and payables.
6.  Explain and demonstrate the accounting procedures for long-term and intangible assets.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Apparel Design & Tech

      Financial Counseling& Planning

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Retail Management

      Selling & Sales Management


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MA 15300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 15555 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of D-


