ANTH 20500 - Human Cultural Diversity

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Offers an engaging introduction to concepts, themes, methods, and ethical concerns that guide research and analysis in cultural anthropology. Students will learn how to identify and interpret the complexities of human culture - what makes cultures different, and in what ways are they more alike than we might assume? Topics include: race and racism; ethnicity and nationalism; gender; sexuality; kinship, family, and marriage; class and inequality; the global economy; politics and power; religion; and health and illness.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Anthropology 


Course Attributes: Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, Lower Division, S General Education, GTC-Social-Behavioral, UC-Behavior/Social Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Define cultural anthropology as one of anthropology's four subfields and situate its history within the discipline.
2.  Display an understanding of anthropological use of 'culture' as analytical concept by giving examples of how cultures differ in social practices, and how cultures are learned, negotiated, and transformed over time.
3.  Demonstrate proficient knowledge of key themes in classic and contemporary cultural anthropological texts, such as race and racism; ethnicity and nationalism; gender; sexuality; kinship, family and marriage; class and inequality; global economy; politics and power; religion, health and illness, through question posing, thoughtful discussion, short and long form writing, oral presentations, and in-class exams.
4.  Demonstrate command of the methods for conducting anthropological fieldwork, and apply these methods towards completion of two mini-ethnographic projects.
5.  Display professional skills in research, analysis, and presentation, as well as constructively commenting on peer work products.
6.  Discuss the importance of anthropology in the study of contemporary life.



