HTM 23100 - Hospitality And Tourism Marketing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course teaches students a customer-oriented approach to marketing in hospitality and tourism.  This course emphasizes the role of marketing in an organization's overall strategic planning.  Techniques available to hotels, restaurants,  and other tourism businesses are described and evaluated including travel packaging, the travel trade, advertising, sales promotion, positioning and branding.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the key principles of marketing in the tourism and hospitality industry.
2.  Describe the importance of target market segmentation and consumer behavior in Tourism and Hospitality Marketing.
3.  Define marketing planning and strategy and examine the components of the marketing mix.
4.  Explain the trends impacting tourism and hospitality marketing.
5.  Introduce the concepts of image, branding and positioning.
6. Distinguish between ethical and non-ethical behaviors in tourism and hospitality marketing.
7.  Apply tourism and hospitality marketing principles to International markets.
8.  Apply tourism and hospitality marketing principles to new technologies and ecommerce.
9.  Apply effective communication skills in Tourism and Hospitality marketing situations.
10.  Demonstrate the ability to work with others to achieve tourism and hospitality marketing objectives.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 17300 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


