MGMT 65390 - HR Analytics

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  This course provides an introduction to the field of HR analytics. HR Analytics is an advanced set of data analysis methodologies, tools, and metrics for comprehensive workforce performance measurement and improvement. The objective of HR analytics is to drive evidence-based decisions and action in the workplace. In addition to your instructor, you may hear from expert practitioners and corporate leaders who have "been there and done that" leveraging a myriad of HR analytics along the way.  We will also review (and hopefully expand) your understanding of handling data including conceptualizing models, identifying key metrics, collecting data, analyzing data, and presenting data in ways that tell a powerful story. Throughout our course, I will infuse consulting concepts, methodologies, and lessons learned that combined with your analytic skills will help you to effectively serve as an HR Business Partner (internal HR consultant).

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: Dept of Management 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Understand how organizations use HR analytics to address business problems, support business decision making and drive business outcomes.
2. Become familiar with methods and processes to design, define and execute workforce research projects in a consulting capacity leveraging consulting models and methodologies and enhancing project management capabilities.
3. Learn how to approach and apply HR analytics methodology.
4. Understand current HR analytics practices, tools and emerging trends



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-MS

      Economics-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MSIA

      Management-PHD

      Economics-MA Teaching

      Management Exec-MS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


