PTEC 30800 - Deep Immersion

Credit Hours: 4.00 to 8.00.  The third in a series of transdisciplinary, real-world, project-based work and conversations exploring the intersections of humanities and technology, social and natural sciences. Projects emphasize design thinking; collaboration; communication; hands-on prototyping; testing; assessing. Learners will engage in individual and team project work and conversations that will change in scale and scope based on the learner's experience, goals, and learning needs. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 TO     8.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Studio 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 16 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of science, technology, and quantitative reasoning using project-based techniques to address unstructured, real-world problems.
2.  Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding and skill with individual and team based project work.
3.  Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of technology and culture using a variety of effective communication techniques.
4.  Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of information literacy using a variety of effective communication techniques.
5.  Demonstrate emerging to proficient level of understanding of connecting acquired knowledge and skills to the primary program competencies




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Transdisciplinary Studies-BSTS


Prerequisites:

PTEC 30800 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
PTEC
20800


Required Courses: 
   2

Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



