ENTM 42820 - Carrion Ecology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course explores how carrion interact with the environment and other organisms during the decomposition process. Focus will be given to an understanding of the process itself, how investigators collect information about the process, and how research is conducted into the process of decomposition. Students will carry out an experiment and write their results up in the format of a peer reviewed article. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Entomology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the process of decomposition.
2.  Describe and distinguish the stages of vertebrate decomposition, including when those stages begin and end and what variables define a given stage.
3.  Describe and explain the abiotic factors that influence decomposition. 
4.  Describe and explain the biotic factors that influence decomposition. 
5.  Explain the nutrient flow through a carrion resource, including how various living organisms take advantage of such resources.
6.  Experience carrion ecology field techniques.
7.  Measure the abiotic factors that influence decomposition.
8.  Measure the biotic factors that influence decomposition.
9.  Evaluate a decomposition scene and strategize site data collection.
10.  Identify the species the animals that frequent a carrion source.
11.  Develop and implement a research project.
12.  Plan, propose and defend a scientific research project related to carrion ecology.
13.  Build a budget for a research project.
14.  Build a collection strategy SOP for a research project.
15.  Conduct a proposed research project.
16.  Analyze the results of a research project.
17.  Write-up, print and submit a research paper on your project, using the format for INSTARS or JPUR.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ENTM 32820 Minimum Grade of D-


