BME 46000 - Cardiovascular Mechanical Support And Devices

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Designed to expose students to state-of-the-art medical technologies being utilized in the treatment of patients with cardiovascular diseases, the course emphasizes the role of the biomedical engineer in the design, development and implementation of these technologies for therapeutic impact. Students completing this course will have an understanding of the role of biomedical engineers in clinical engineering and clinical research. The three components of the course, didactic presentations and discussions, laboratory dissections, and clinical shadowing are integrated throughout to teach concepts such as cardiovascular physiology, heart failure and vascular disease, treatments and treatment complications, and future directions. Clinical experts in cardiovascular diagnosis and treatment are frequent guest lecturers.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify key anatomical and physiological features of the cardiovascular system. They will learn this by dissecting mice and pig hearts, viewing illustrations, and both reading research articles and the textbook focused on EKGs.
2.  Identify unmet clinical needs and practice brainstorming possible solutions by writing an in depth report and giving an oral presentation based on both the course material and their clinical experiences.
3.  Recognize fundamental engineering concepts used to design and utilize cardiovascular medical devices by writing shadow reports based on their immersion within a clinical setting.
4.  Describe and diagnose various cardiac and vascular diseases by completing a mid semester and final examination covering the course material.
5.  Explain the role of a biomedical engineer in the development and implementation of cardiovascular disease treatment in healthcare by interacting with multiple health care professionals during and after their guest lectures.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BME 25600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 30400 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


