MGMT 55500 - Leading Management Of Diversity And Inclusion In Organizations

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  People and leaders in organizations are constantly working with members of different backgrounds. This course focuses on talent management of gender and diversity for inclusion from an individual employee, leader and team/organizational perspective. When leveraged effectively diversity has the potential to foster learning, creativity, and innovation, but when ignored or misunderstood these differences in identity and values can lead to increased turnover, conflict, stress, talent under-utilization, and harm career experiences and productivity. This goal of this class is to take a multi-level (individual and organization) to help you learn how to lead the management of diversity and inclusion through a) improving your ability to work in diverse teams, as well as b) developing your ability to lead, develop, and implement strategies to foster cultural and structural change to support improved talent management of gender and diversity toward enhanced organizational effectiveness. Men, as well as women, and majority and minority individuals, will be able to leverage the skills taught in this course when making their own career decisions, as well as when managing, being managed by, or collaborating with others; or leading and changing organizations to support new ways of working. From an individual leadership perspective, we begin by tackling the question: "Why does diversity matter in employing organizations and business, what is the state of the art evidence-based knowledge, and what does it mean to me personally in my career and my leadership beliefs." Specifically, we focus on the business and social science processes- including attitudes toward in- groups and out-groups, stereotyping, identity, privilege, and power, discrimination, bias, equity influence opportunity, bystander awareness, and perspective taking- that affect how members of different social groups perceive and interact with one another. Since managing social identity increasingly involves managing work-life boundaries and work and non-work public and private selves, we will also learn about authenticity choices and social and public/ professional identity boundary management.  From an organizational and group perspective, we address the questions "What are best practices for successful diversity management?" We will discuss strategies for creating diversity through HR and management practices; how to create an inclusive culture and positive climate for inclusion and talent management, and developing and retaining diverse talent across multiple levels of intervention (individual, group, intergroup, organizational, and societal). We discuss how to conduct an organizational diagnosis of the current diversity climate and barriers and facilitators for   creating a multicultural workplace and a flexible environment supportive of many identities, and how assumptions may vary across industry and cultural contexts. In addition to readings and learning logs, cases, self- reflections and other exercises, students will have a choice of a teachathon project, which will allow them to somewhat customize the course to their own major interest-managing themselves or managing others. Student engagement and a willingness to share diverse perspectives are critical to the success of this course. To facilitate an active classroom, a range of participative learning methods are used, including learning log reflections, case analysis, experiential exercises, small group discussions, and self-assessments, and research projects. The emphasis is on exploiting diverse ways of learning as well as interaction with real-life examples and situations. The role of the instructor in this course is not to provide "the" answer, but to create an environment where you can collectively explore, examine and experiment with your own ideas. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate the aspects of your identity and personal experiences that shape how you interact and engage with others and how they interact and engage with you in organizations.
2.  Explain how issues of power, privilege, discrimination, bias, equality, and equity influence opportunity and effectiveness in organizations operating both in local, domestic and global contexts.
3.  Propose ways to make relationships across cultural and cross-cultural  and gender differences in organizations more effective.
4.  Describe current perspectives on the relationships among diversity, inclusion, creativity, and innovation in  domestic and global organizations.
5.  Analyze a company's current approach to leading diversity and use content from this course to propose ways to enhance learning and effectiveness in that company.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


