ABE 20100 - Thermodynamics In Biological Systems I

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Thermodynamic principles associated with biological systems and processing of biological materials.  Emphasis on the first law of thermodynamics.  Fundamentals of steady-state mass and energy balances for reacting and non-reacting processes including multiple unit operations emphasizing living systems and bioprocessing.  Applications of the first law conservation of energy to biological systems, energy conversion systems, and the environmental impacts of energy production.  Development of engineering problem solving skills via MathCad and MatLab software. Laboratory emphasizes combining technical engineering skills with professional skill development through computer and laboratory exercises including two extensive projects that result in a biological product design.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze problems and use a systematic approach to problem solving in the engineering of biological systems.
2.  Develop mass balances for systems with and without biochemical reactions for in vivo and in vitro biological systems.
3.  Characterize the properties of solids, liquids, and gases common to biological systems.
4.  Estimate gas/vapor properties using gas laws.
5.  Understand the relationships between pressure, partial pressure, and humidity.
6.  Apply the basic thermodynamic concepts to quantify phase and chemical equilibrium parameters for food and biological systems.
7.  Use models to predict the physical behavior of materials at equilibrium in multi-component, multi-phase systems.
8.  Use computational software to solve problems in biological systems.
9.  Able to apply science and math skills to develop a new product and the processes required to transform the input materials into the final product.
10.  Able to apply engineering fundamentals and analytical skills, specifically mass and energy balances and thermodynamics, to product and process development projects.
11.  Able to communicate technical information, oral and written.
12.  Develop leadership and teamwork skills through personal awareness and reflection, and team experiences.
13.  Develop an innovative and a strong work ethic through new product development.
14.  Have increased awareness of ethical responsibility through evaluating case studies and classroom discussion.
15.  Be more curious and persistent learners through self-directed team projects.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of C-) or (Undergraduate level  CHEM C1020 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHEM C1220 Minimum Grade of C-) or (Undergraduate level  CHEM C1060 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHEM C1260 Minimum Grade of C-)


