PHRM 82500 - Integrated Pharmacotherapy I

Credit Hours: 6.00. This course will serve as an integrated approach to the physiology/pathophysiology, medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics/ pharmaceutics, and pharmacotherapeutics of the following topics: fluids/electrolyte pharmacotherapy, renal diseases, acid/base disorders, clinical nutrition, autonomic nervous system (ANS), pulmonary diseases, hematology, immunology, and rheumatology. The emphasis of this course is knowledge and skill development. Also in the process of completing the objectives, attitudes toward the role of the pharmacist and patient-related issues will be imparted. Typically offered Spring.

    6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Conceptual Competence: The student must demonstrate evidence-based knowledge of the following theoretical foundations of the profession and apply these to individual practice settings. Basic anatomy/physiology; Pathophysiology; Diagnostic methods and decision making; Principles of pharmacology; Relationship between chemical structure and biological activity; Delivery of drugs from various dosage forms; Pharmacotherapy; Drug interactions; Treatment guidelines. 
2.  Scientific Comprehension: The students must demonstrate comprehension of major scientific discoveries and use of the scientific method to make these discoveries.  Basic principles of drug design and the chemical and biochemical mechanisms of drug action; The relevance of molecular biology, biochemistry, and pharmacogenomics and apply key principles of disease states and therapeutics.
3.  Mathematical Competence: The students must be able to use mathematical variables to analyze physical, biological, and socioeconomic phenomena. Perform error-free mathematical calculations with regard to drug dosing and pharmacokinetics. 
4.  Integrative (Practice-related) Competence: The student must be able to meld theory and abilities in the practice setting to enhance positive patient outcomes. Provide patient-centered pharmaceutical care; Promote health improvement and disease prevention;  critically evaluate patient data, literature sources, and drug products; provide specific, sound, cost effective, evidence-based drug and healthcare recommendations; design, implement, and evaluate patient specific pharmacotherapeutic regimens; select the proper drug, dose, and dosage form for a specific patient; design strategies to monitor patients’ drug regimens for therapeutic and toxic effects of medications; design strategies to avoid or manage drug interactions and adverse drug events; identify and implement strategies to encourage patient adherence to therapeutic interventions. 
5.  Critical Thinking and Decision Making Abilities: The student must examine issues rationally, logically, and coherently; and shall acquire, evaluate, and synthesize information and knowledge relevant to an identified problem; and make sound decisions in both familiar and unfamiliar context. Synthesize information in order to draw logical conclusions; provide evidence-based support for arguments, recommendations, and solutions; demonstrate the ability to make sound decisions given complex scenarios in a time-constrained environment.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 82400 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 82600 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 83600 Minimum Grade of D-


