PHRM 46800 - Clinical Integration And Application

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This is an elective class which gives participants more experience working up patient cases with multiple complications and an opportunity to make recommendations to a team. The material for each case will be derived from actual cases and topics will include continuity of care problems, typical problems/diseases seen in hospitalized patients, and a host of other chronic illnesses. During the 3-week class, students will have 1-1.5 hours to work on a patient case in class and address challenges faced in the clinical setting. The second half of class will be used for students to present their recommendations to a "medicine team" (made up of your classmates and teachers). Students will be responsible for creating a pharmacist problem list and making verbal drug therapy recommendations. The majority of the grade will come from in-class participation with other points coming from online quizzes, communication exercises, and follow-up answers from clinical questions. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Utilize the Pharmacists' Patient Care Process (PCPP) when evaluating and synthesizing patient care plans
2.  Identify and prioritize medical problems for a complex patient each class period.
3.  Interpret patient cases through the identification of pertinent objective and subjective data each class period. 
4.  Formulate and adjust a patient specific, evidence-based treatment plan for each identified medical problem daily. 
5.  Present audience appropriate, patient specific recommendations using evidence-based medicine as necessary.
6.  Identify and apply relevant literature, including, but not limited to practice guidelines, landmark trials, and case reports to each patient case.
7.  Prepare and communicate a drug information response including appropriate citations when requested.
8.  Demonstrate the ability to self-assess one's performance and identify areas for continual professional development.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


