HSCI 44400 - Exposure Assessment In OEHS

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Exposure assessment is an essential component of Environment Health Science and industrial hygiene. This course provides students basic scientific knowledge of exposure assessment, with emphasis on practical aspects of exposure science, including study design, data and measurement collection, data analysis, and results interpretation and presentation. Course topics include major exposure media and pathways (air, water, food, soil, etc.) and important exposure routs (inhalation, ingestion, dermal absorption); exposure measurement and assessment; strengths and weaknesses of various exposure assessment techniques, how to link exposure assessment with environment health, and human subject research in exposure studies. The course include case studies and group projects. Students are expected to develop entry level sills for designing exposure studies applicable to human exposure monitoring, epidemiologic investigation and health risk assessment. Typically offered Spring.


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Health Sciences 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe basic components of exposure assessment studies.
2.  Design a study to conduct basic assessments of exposure to chemical hazards at workplace or in a community setting.
3.  Obtain and analyze existing data, collect and analyze measurement data, prepare technical reports, and present results.
4.  Discuss ethical and professional responsibilities in exposure studies.
5.  Function effectively on a team that identify, evaluate and solve problems related to exposures in occupational and environmental settings.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHM 32100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  HSCI 34500 Minimum Grade of D-


