MA 16020 - Applied Calculus II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covers techniques of integration; infinite series, convergence tests; differentiation and integration of functions of several variables; maxima and minima, optimization; differential equations and initial value problems; matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors.  Applications. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.
CTL:IMA 1605 Calculus - Short II


    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Mathematics 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Core Transfer Library, Lower Division, GTC-Quantitative Reasoning, UC-Quantitative Reasoning 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use techniques of integration to find areas between curves and compute volumes of solids of revolution.
2.  Analyze the convergence of infinite series and power series, Taylor series expansions.
3.  Compute derivatives of functions of several variables and use them to find maxima and minima of functions.
4.  Perform multiple iterated integration.
5.  Use differential equations for modeling simple real life situations.
6.  Solve first order linear initial value problems and separable equations.
7.  Apply matrix operations to solve linear equations, find matrix inverses, compute determinants and eigenvectors.
8.  Topics to be covered at a level required to perform standard applications related to life sciences, management and technology.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16700 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 22100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 23100 Minimum Grade of C-


