BIOL 30100 - Human Design: Anatomy And Physiology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A study of human function, emphasizing physiology of body tissues and systems. Relevant aspects of anatomy and histology are also included. Use of examples from current medical practice encourages application of knowledge to predict symptoms of disease and rationale for treatment. Topics covered include histophysiology of cells and tissues, nerve and muscle physiology, the nervous system, and cardiovascular dynamics.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Practice Study Observation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
4.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
6.  Be familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism.
7.  Understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism.
8.  Understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes.
9.  Understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes.
10.  Understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels.
11.  Understand the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions.
12.  Demonstrate an in depth knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level.
13.  Demonstrate the ability to measure dynamic changes in living organisms, tissues, and cells.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 13100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 12100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 10901 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D-)


