AD 61600 - Electronic And Time-Based Art

Credit Hours: 3.00 to 6.00.  This seminar explores contemporary artistic practices in Electronic and Time-Based Art, including emerging fields such as: generative and interactive art, audio-visual installation, and new media performance. The format of the course is a mixture of critique, workshops, research, presentations, and discussion.  Permission of department required.

    0.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Patti & Rusty Rueff Schl DAP 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 24 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Make use of essential tools and techniques for generating, sketching and realizing ideas in the field of new media art using DIY strategies, commercial as well as open source software and hardware solutions for creative production, collaborative and interdisciplinary team work. 	
2.  Use shared knowledge from online communities that is relevant to their projects.  
3.  Consider contributing their own findings and knowledge gained in this class to relevant online communities (e.g. arduino.cc, processing.org, instructables.com, makezine.com, etc). 
4.  Know how to research and find relevant exhibition venues, festivals and competitions. 
5.  Find the most effective medium for their ideas and concepts.  
6.  Know how to adjust to a field of artistic expression in which the tools (i.e. digital software and hardware technologies) are changing rapidly.  
7.  Have developed effective research strategies pertinent to the history of Electronic and Time-Based Art.  
8.  Able to analyze key works and artists in the merging field of Electronic and Time-Based Art. Be able to place their artistic practice in a rich historical context of related earlier art forms such as: Kinetic Art, Film, Dada, Fluxus and Performance Art.  
9.  Understand that "A technology is not merely a system of machines with certain functions; rather, it is an expression of a social world.  Electricity, the telephone, radio, television, the computer, and the Internet are not implacable forces moving through history, but social processes that vary from one time period to another and from one culture to another. " (Nye 2006, 47). 
10.  Improve their writing skills toward successful project and exhibition proposals, artist statements and research papers according to CAA's latest Guidelines for Faculty Teaching in New-Media Arts (2007):  "In this emergent field, contributions to theory should be seen as having equal significance as aesthetic productions. " (see: http://www.collegeart.org/guidelines/newmedia07.html).



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Visual Perform Arts-MFA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


