BMS 80500 - Applied Anatomy Of Production Animals

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Consists of seven 50-minute lectures and/or discussion periods and seven 120-150-minute laboratory sessions, plus a comprehensive final exam. Course material is based upon clinical conditions of the production animals that have an anatomical basis or emphasis. Laboratory sessions include topographical anatomy; joint and nerve injections and performance or other clinical procedures; use of multimedia learning aids; and dissection of the head, neck, viscera, and legs.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize, describe and demonstrate the features, positions, and topographical locations of normal anatomical structures which are necessary for conduct of physical examination, including rectal palpation; diagnostic procedures, including contemporary imaging procedures; medical and surgical treatment of common disorders; and necropsy examination of mammalian production animals.
2.  Describe structure-function inter-relationships of clinically important organs and structures in production animals, particularly as they relate to commonly encountered clinical abnormalities and disorders.
3.  Recognize and describe anatomical structures associated with commonly encountered surgical disorders in production animals.
4.  Identify relevant landmarks and be able to perform the most commonly conducted procedures to accomplish local and regional anesthesia in production animals. Explain the anatomical basis of each procedure, as well as the rationale underlying the procedures, and the level of diagnostic and therapeutic specificity of each procedure.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  BMS 80100 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  BMS 80200 Minimum Grade of D-


