ECON 47100 - Behavioral Economics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Students learn about human behavior in economic environments, with a strong emphasis on classroom laboratory exercises.  Topics considered include behavior in a variety of markets - for example, markets with price controls, markets for financial assets and auction markets -- and behavior in social dilemmas that arise when people try to provide public goods voluntarily or when sellers try to conspire to fix prices. Students will also learn how people bargain with, trust each other, and show social preferences towards others. Decision-making and anomalies for risky and uncertain choices will also be covered.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a basic understanding of Economics as applied to human behavior in various economic environments based on classroom laboratory exercises. 
2.  Understand the perspective provided by economic analysis in social exchanges that involve bargaining, trust, and uncertainty. 
3.  Identify insights experimental economics provides concerning individuals' behavior in markets.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Accounting-Cert

      Management-BSIM

      Economics-BS

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BA


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ECON 34000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON 30100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16020 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16600 Minimum Grade of C-)


