NUPH 49100 - Introduction To Nuclear Pharmacy

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will serve as an introduction to nuclear pharmacy practice and serve as the first course in the nuclear pharmacy elective series.  Successful completion of the nuclear pharmacy series can be used to meet the 200 hour didactic training requirement set forth by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) towards achieving Authorized User status.  This course will provide basic information about the profession of nuclear pharmacy, as well as an introduction to radioactive material and radiation safety concepts.  The course will conclude with guest lectures from practitioners in several different areas of nuclear pharmacy practice to provide information about the different areas of practice available to nuclear pharmacists.  Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe nuclear pharmacy and nuclear medicine and the role of these areas of practice.
2.  Review the history of nuclear pharmacy practice.
3.  Understand concepts relating to the medical use of ionizing radiation.
4.  Identify methods used to monitor and minimize radiation exposure.
5.  Recognize basic principles of radiation biology and how radiation interacts with humans.
6.  Understand the role of radiation monitoring in nuclear pharmacy practice.
7.  Review basic regulatory oversight for nuclear pharmacy and PET pharmacy practice.
8.  Describe the role of nuclear pharmacists in various practice settings.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional First Year


