EDPS 54200 - Curriculum And Program Development In Gifted Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is an introduction to the curriculum development and program design for meeting the needs of gifted, creative, and talented students. Students will be exposed to established program and curriculum models, as well as the nuts and bolts of developing curricular plans, materials, and specialized programs that support the advanced learning needs of gifted students. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Indiana College Network, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students will think strategically about gifted program design, including such design components as mission statements, program goals, building a continuum of services, and designing student selection procedures.
2.  Students will become familiar with major program and curriculum models in gifted education. 
3.  Students will practice designing and revising lessons to incorporate instructional strategies well suited for high-ability students. 
4.  Students will become critical evaluators of educational materials and practices to assess their suitability for use with high-ability students. 																							
																								




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-EDPS 54000 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
EDPS
54000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



