BCHM 49800 - Research In Biochemistry

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00.  Supervised individual research. This course is intended to provide the opportunity for in-depth, independent undergraduate research.  The students enrolled in this course will learn how to devise hypotheses, design experiments that test their hypotheses, record their data in laboratory notebooks, critically analyze the results of their analyses, and present their findings to others in written form.  Permission of instructor required.

    1.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Biochemistry 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the scientific method; able to develop hypotheses, design experiments, and critically analyze results to create new knowledge.
2.  Communicate scientific knowledge, experiments and conclusions effectively as speakers and writers.
3.  Use scientific instrumentation to evaluate the activity or function of biological macromolecules.
4.  Demonstrate knowledge of analytical and preparative methods that can be applied to biochemistry.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of accepted safe laboratory practices.
6.  Demonstrate laboratory experience working with a diverse group of individuals as part of a research team.
7.  Demonstrate the ability to organize and document laboratory procedures and results.
8.  Describe research projects in an oral presentation that can be readily understood by a general scientific audience.
9.  Appreciate the ethical issues facing professionals in the life sciences.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BCHM 36100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  BCHM 56100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]) and Undergraduate level  BCHM 32200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


