SOC 33900 - Sociology Of Global Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Analysis of the causes and consequences of global development. Topics include: globalization; colonialism and decolonization; food insecurity and dependency; industrialization, poverty and inequality; migration; debt and trade; women's empowerment; global health; rights and social change; and sustainable development. This course will introduce you to the study of global development and globalization. The primary questions we will address are: What is development? What is globalization and what is it's relationship with development? How have the processes of global development produced inequalities among nations, regions, races, genders, and classes? Is there a "developing" world and a "developed" world? If so, what are the differences and how do they relate with each other? How have some developing countries become more developed than others? What roles do corporations, the state, and civil society organizations play in the process of global development? How is global development interrelated with the physical environment crises? How do people resist the inequalities and perceived injustices of global development through global social movements? How are we interconnected economically, politically, culturally, socially, and ecologically with people all over the world. What are the possible futures of development? To address these issues, our focus will be on the developing world, our scope will be global and long-term, our methodology will be historical-comparative, and our perspective will be social-scientific and critical.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Sociology 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge of the causes and consequences of global development.
2.  Outline the strengths and weaknesses of the basic theoretical perspectives on global development.
3.  Identify the key historical events that have led to the project of global development.
4.  Apply sociological analysis to different complex and power dynamics.
5.  Describe how small- and large-scale projects might contribute to or hinder sustainable development.



