VCS 24400 - Anesthesia For Veterinary Technicians - DL

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course involves the basic principles of anesthesia and anesthetic delivery for the veterinary technician. This course focuses on the preparation of the patient for anesthesia, the agents used as pre-anesthetics, induction agents and general anesthesia, the physiologic impacts of anesthesia on the body, multi-species anesthetic techniques (small animal, large animal/equine, pocket pets), managing high risk patients, anesthetic complications, and pain management. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the preparation of the patient and equipment for anesthesia.
2.  Explain the agents used, advantages/disadvantages, and indications/contraindications of pre-anesthetics, induction agents and general anesthetic agents.
3.  Describe the physiologic impacts of anesthesia on the body.
4.  Explain the different anesthetic techniques required for multiple species (small animal, bovine, equine, porcine, small ruminant, and pocket pets).
5.  Discuss the management of high risk patients.
6.  Recognize anesthetic complications and the steps to prevent.
7.  Discuss the options for pain management in all species.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Vet Nrs Distance Learning

      Vet Tech Distance Learning


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BMS 13600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BMS 23600 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 20100 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  VCS 14100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  VCS 14001 Minimum Grade of D-)


