NUTR 54400 - Advanced Medical Nutrition Therapy For Special Populations

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Application of Medical Nutrition Therapy for special populations including enhanced skills for the practice of dietetics. Lectures and laboratory activities supplement training in various diagnoses and conditions not routinely encountered during supervised practice experiences in NUTR 56100 Medical Nutrition Therapy Experience. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nutrition Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply evidence-based guidelines, systematic reviews and scientific literature.
2.  Evaluate emerging research for application in nutrition and dietetics practice.
3.  Incorporate critical-thinking skills in overall practice.
4.  Practice in compliance with current federal regulations and state statutes and rules, as applicable, and in accordance with accreditation standards and the Scope of Nutrition and Dietetics Practice and Code of Ethics for the Profession of Nutrition and Dietetics.
5.  Function as a member of interprofessional teams.
6.  Perform the Nutrition Care Process and use standardized nutrition language for individuals, groups and populations of differing ages and health status, in a variety of settings.
7.  Practice routine health screening assessments, including measuring blood pressure and conducting waived point-of-care laboratory testing (such as blood glucose or cholesterol).
8.  Perform routing health screening assessments including measuring blood pressure, conducting waived point of care laboratory testing (such as blood glucose or cholesterol), initiating pharmacotherapy plans (such as insulin management), and administering vaccine injections (such as flu shots).
9.  Provide instruction for self-monitoring blood glucose, insulin administration and adjusting diabetes medication.
10.  Insert nasogastric or nasoenteric feeding tubes.
11.  Initiate and conduct bedside swallow screenings.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


