ECE 20200 - Linear Circuit Analysis II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Continuation of ECE 20100. Use of Laplace Transform techniques to analyze linear circuits with and without initial conditions. Characterization of circuits based upon impedance, admittance, and transfer function parameters. Determination of frequency response via analysis of poles and zeros in the complex plane. Relationship between the transfer function and the impulse response of a circuit. Use of continuous time convolution to determine time domain responses. Properties and practical uses of resonant circuits and transformers. Input - output characterization of a circuit as a two-port. Low and high-pass filter design.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      IUPUI

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to compute impedances and admittances of components and circuits.
2.  Able to compute responses of linear circuits with and without initial conditions via one-sided Laplace transform techniques.
3.  Able to compute responses to linear circuits using transfer function and convolution techniques.
4.  Able to analyze and compute responses of linear circuits containing mutually couples inductors and ideal transformers in the s-domain.
5.  Able to analyze basic two port circuits using the various types of two port parameters and be able to construct such parameters from a given circuit.
6.  Able to analyze and design basic LP, BP, HP and resonant circuits in the s-domain.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Elec & Computer Engr


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ECE 20100 Minimum Grade of C and (Undergraduate level  MA 26200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 26600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 36600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


