ABE 55800 - Process Design For Food And Biological Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will focus on the design, synthesis, creation, evaluation, and optimization of processes to convert basic biological materials into a finished product.  Concepts of materials and energy balances, thermodynamics, kinetics, transport phenomena of biological systems will be used to design processes to minimize energy and environmental impacts, and evaluate economic factors while maintaining product quality.  Course will include group javascript:;projects,  oral and written reports.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop an understanding of Bio and Food Separation Processes.
2.  Evaluate the economic aspects of product costs.
3.  Develop and conduct an experimental design to identify impact of process variables to improve product quality.
4.  Develop processes to minimize environmental and energy impact.
5.  Develop an understanding of optimization (zero discharge/minimum energy).
6.  Develop a business plan.
7.  Communicate technological information.
8.  Improve computer skills to operate and schedule processes (superPro Designer/Batches).
9.  Work in teams to design a biological/food process.
10.  Review technical and patent literature




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-ABE 55800 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ABE
55700


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



