HK 50600 - Evidence Based Practice In Athletic Training

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Introduction to research methodology, and qualitative and quantitative data analysis as related to evidence based practice of athletic training. The course addresses formulating clinical questions; searching, reading and appraising research; understanding levels of evidence; and citing and referencing works to become consumers of and designers of evidence. The course introduces students to the selection, application, and interpretation of basic descriptive, correlational, and interferential statistics. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand and compare the types of research commonly undertaken by researchers within the field of athletic training.
2.  Appreciate and understand the ethical considerations within the research process.
3.  Conduct a review of literature on the research topic allowing the student to organize and interpret the findings while writing of the review of literature of a paper for publication.
4.  Consider the mechanics of designing the research process which allows the student to begin writing an introduction of a paper for publication.
5.  Evaluate the concepts of internal and external validity of research design.
6.  Weigh the importance of reliable and valid measurements in athletic training research.
7.  Distinguish between experimental and non-experimental research designs and the advantages and disadvantages with each type of design.
8.  Critique the typical measures utilized by athletic training researchers to report strength, proprioception and kinesthesia, balance, stability, range of motion, etc. results in athletic training research.
9.  Create all the different components of the research design concluding with the writing of a methods section of a paper for publication.
10.  Understand and apply basic statistical measures such as: descriptive, inferential and probability statistics.
11.  Understand and apply the common applied statistical decision making techniques in athletic training research analysis of variance, repeated measures analysis of variance, and correlation analysis, etc.
12.  Organize and construct the results section of the research project for both thesis chapter and manuscript formats.
13.  Understand the importance of and methods associated with obtaining research funding through grant writing and other mechanisms.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


