MGMT 65700 - Manufacturing Strategy And Process Innovation

Credit Hours: 2.00.  In recent years many firms have rediscovered manufacturing and operations as a potential source of strategic advantage. In general, these firms have sought to develop capabilities in operations which provide a sustainable advantage in the marketplace. In addition, successful firms have developed processes for understanding the cross-functional implications of product and process choices. In this course, we will seek to understand the circumstances under which particular operating capabilities are most beneficial and how such capabilities can be developed so that operations can be exploited for competitive advantage. Concurrent Prerequisite:  MGMT 61000, 65000, 66000.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify a fit between Competitive Priorities and Operational Choices by showing how such a fit is accomplished in case analysis and write-ups and understanding pressures to change competitive priorities or operational choices.
2.  Establish how capabilities emerge over time and enable a trajectory of competitive advantage by showing how capabilities create options to change tradeoffs in competitive priorities in case analysis and write-ups and identifying financial implications of pursuing one competitive priority vs another.
3.  Use financial analysis and discussion of capabilities to argue for investment choices in case analysis.
4.  Understand benefits of different approaches to supplier alliances.  Consider tradeoffs in governance cost, production cost, long term efficiency and responsiveness in arms length, vertically integrated, and third way supplier partnerships in case analysis.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-MS

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Management-PHD

      Org Behav and HR Mgmt-MS

      Management-MBA

      Management-MSIA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


