MGMT 63900 - Advanced Auditing And Professional Practice

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to help students prepare for their professional careers by strengthening their understanding of the CPA's attest function and familiarizing them with current assurance issues. After finishing the course, students should understand the current state of the Enterprise Risk Management and tools for risk evaluation, be able to identify best practices related to external audit, be prepared to manage an audit group, understand the key aspects of being an audit consultant and be able to work with all levels of internal and external audit professionals. Throughout the course, students will have opportunities to improve their written and oral communication skills, particularly as they relate to communication in the audit setting. The course will also emphasize the impact of recent and current regulatory actions, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, on the audit profession.  Prerequisite: MGMT 50600 with a minimum grade of C.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Achieve depth of understanding and application of essential content in business functional areas: Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of how U.S. audit and securities market regulations affect an audit. They will also use their statistical training in audit planning and evaluation as well as risk assessment. 
2.  Become familiar with the ethical issues that individuals face in organizations: Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of ethics as it relates to audit and external reporting.
3.  Develop current business technologies and use common business technology and software in essential tasks: Students will use spreadsheets and auditing software in case analyses and assignments.
4.  Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills through class participation and the writing and presentation of a team paper. They will also demonstrate effective written communication skills through case write-ups. 
5.  Achieve depth of understanding and applications of financial reporting: By deepening their understanding of the audit process and techniques and by working through case studies focused on particular reporting and auditing issues, students will develop and demonstrate a deep understanding of reporting regulations and rules. 
6.  Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environment: Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present a research paper on business and audit risks in a specific sector.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Degrees:      

      Master of Science

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Accounting


