VM 34210 - Integrations For Veterinary Nurses

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course will give an introduction to problem-based learning of the nursing process (patient evaluations, interventions, and desire resolutions) using a case-based approach. This course will integrate foundational knowledge from anatomy, physiology, and information in the veterinary nursing courses. This course will draw on fundamentals and concepts learned from all courses to this point including pharmacology, diagnostic imaging, parasitology, small animal nursing, and large animal nursing, so as to enable you to apply knowledge of understanding of clinical cases. Cases will involve different domestic animal species. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Integrate and apply knowledge from foundational coursework.
2.  Identify and apply the components of the veterinary nursing process.
3.  Follow evidence-based medicine practices and relate to patient case scenarios.
4.  Utilize critical thinking skills to apply the veterinary nursing process to patient case scenarios.
5.  Use verbal and written communication skills appropriately with other members of the veterinary team.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Veterinary Nurse-BS

      Veterinary Nurse-AAS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BMS 33100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 22800 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 32100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 32200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 32300 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 34300 Minimum Grade of D-


