EDPS 34200 - Applied Behavior Analysis - Assessment And Intervention

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is one of fours courses in the Applied Behavior Analysis pathway for undergraduates in teacher licensure programs and is also part of the course content required to become a Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst (BCaBA). This course offers the interventionist with the techniques for designing, implementing, and evaluating instructional and behavioral interventions grounded in the theories of applied behavior analysis. Specifically, the learner will be exposed to techniques for measuring target academic, behavior, social and adaptive skills, as well as methods for displaying and interpreting data. Additionally, learners will design interventions, and monitor progress and will be exposed to the foundational concepts and methods of ABA including defining behaviors, collecting data, and understanding the three-term contingency of behavior. This course includes a field placement.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and define the basic concepts of applied behavior analysis including the foundations of ABA, interrelated domains, and dimensions of ABA.
2.  Identify factors to consider when selecting target goals including client and environmental factors.
3.  Define target skills utilizing observable and measurable terms including all components of an appropriate learning goal.
4.  Identify measurable dimensions of behavior and appropriate measurement procedures, including advantages and disadvantages of each.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge about the various single subject research designs and variations of each, including advantages and disadvantages of each, including those most appropriate for practice and ongoing documentation.
6.  Identify potential interventions based on assessment results as well as client/student preferences and current repertoires.
7.  Use stimulus prompts and fading (e.g., errorless, most-to-least, least-to-most, prompt delay, stimulus fading).
8.  Describe the role of imitation and modeling in learning and demonstrate procedures for implementation.
9.  Define stimulus control and strategies for establishing.
10.  Describe and implement discrete trial and naturalistic teaching arrangement.



