MGMT 64810 - Marketing Analysis And Planning

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The course in Market Analysis and Planning examines the issues associated with the analysis of market opportunities and the formulation of strategic marketing plans to take advantage of market opportunities.  Specific analysis issues include the identification of customer needs, competitive advantages, and company capabilities.  Results of these analyses lead to choices the firm makes with regard to its market segmentation, target market selection, and positioning.  Topics introduced in conjunction with these analyses include product life cycle analysis, product portfolio selection, and strategic resource allocation decisions.  Aspects of resource allocation include decisions regarding market research and new product development (or product repositioning).  Further, the allocation of firm resources directed at fostering market demand is examined, including the deployment of marketing communications to potential customers and salesforce efforts to attain distribution.  A long-term perspective on market analysis and planning is emphasized through the utilization of the Markstrat Simulation.  For this computer simulation, student teams participate in multi-period decision-making for their respective companies. Prerequisite: MGMT 62000. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Experience formulating and implementing marketing analysis and planning in a dynamic environment, using the Markstrat Simulation.  
2.  Know concepts of product portfolio analysis, product life cycle management, and resource allocation strategies; examine how these topics are linked to the firm's market segmentation scheme, its target market selection, and its positioning.
3.  Enhance capacity for making marketing decisions based on their analyses of customers and competitors over the life cycle stages.
4.  Appreciate the linkages between marketing success and performance in the other functional areas such as R & D, production, and finance.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


