VM 22300 - Pharmacy Clinical Mentorship-DL

Credit Hours: 0.50.  This clinical mentorship will require the veterinary technician student to work with a veterinary care facility to practice tasks under the supervision of a clinical mentor.  This clinical mentorship focuses on the principles of drug order fulfillment, reconstitution of medications, correct storage of medications (including controlled substances), safe handling of hazardous medications, and inventory control procedures.  Permission of department required.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Interpret accurately a DVM medication order and transcribe that order onto a prescription label of the appropriate type for the container used, with appropriate information on the label.
2.  Interpret accurately DVM orders for an oral solid and an oral liquid medication and fill the orders.
3.  Interpret accurately DVM orders and reconstitute a medication for dispensing and a vaccine for administration to a patient.
4.  Dispense an oral liquid medication and topical medication to a client, explaining medication administration, administration devices, and special instructions if indicated.
5.  Describe appropriate storage and record keeping of controlled substances in a veterinary practice.
6.  Describe the process for pharmacy inventory in a facility and critique the process.
7.  Describe safe storage and handling of biological and hazardous medications.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Vet Nrs Distance Learning

      Vet Tech Distance Learning


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VCS 20100 Minimum Grade of D-


