ECON 38000 - Money And Banking

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course analyzes the economics of money, monetary systems, investments, and financial intermediaries in modern industrial economies. Topics considered include the origin of money and the banking industry, financial asset markets, the role of central banks, and the effects of various monetary policies. The theory will be presented side by side with current economic and financial news, and the students will learn how to track financial and economic data via The Wall Street Journal.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand economic analysis, through developing the economic intuition necessary to organize concepts and facts, and draw conclusions through use of inductive and deductive logic.
2.  Evaluate current developments and financial news, using economic analysis to think critically about how to interpret current events.
3.  Use economic analysis to predict likely changes in the economy and financial system.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

      Social Studies Education


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1040 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2020 Minimum Grade of C-)


