HK 30300 - Athletic Training Modalities

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Theory and practice in the use of physical agents used in the management and promotion of healing of physically active injuries. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the inflammatory response to acute and chronic injury.
2.  Determine and select the appropriate modality according to treatment goals and objectives.
3.  Explain the prevailing pain control theories and associated rationale for the selection and use of therapeutic modalities for the control of acute and chronic pain.
4.  Describe the physical properties, biophysics, set-up, indications, contraindications, and specific physiological effects associated with the application of superficial cold and heat; stimulating electrical currents; diathermy; therapeutic ultrasound; intermittent compression units; iontophoresis; traction; massage; biofeedback; and LASER.
5.  Administer contemporary therapeutic modalities to a patient using clinically acceptable procedures including patient preparation, set-up, determination of dosage, and operational procedures according to established guidelines.
6.  Inspect therapeutic equipment and the treatment environment.
7.  Identify various standards that influence the approval, operation, inspection, maintenance and safe application of therapeutic equipment.
8.  Describe a systemic approach to create and answer a clinical question.
9.  Describe differences between narrative reviews, systematic reviews, and meta-analysis.
10.  Search for, find, and document the best evidence to support a problem or clinical problem.
11.  Develop a Critically Appraised Topic (CAT) that includes a PICO, creating a search strategy (search terms), using databases to find evidence, appraising evidence, determining levels of evidence, analyzing and synthesizing evidence, and determining a clinical bottom line.
12.  Present a Critically Appraised Topic using professional communication skills.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Athletic Training


