AGEC 53200 - World Food Problems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (NUTR 53200) This course focuses on the multi-disciplinary challenges that exist in meeting the food and nutrition needs of a growing world population. The course aims to instill an appreciation of the importance of economics, food production and technology, trade, culture, communication, political processes and institutions, demography and related factors in determining adequate food availability and health globally. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agricultural Economics 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand global food production and consumption, food trade and its history including: the major plants produced and consumed; where they are grown; patterns and extent of global food trade; major food animals and animal production systems; countries involved in food trade; urbanization and food transportation; and effects of post-harvest processing on food trade and availability.
2.  Understand basics of world population growth and its relationship to past and future food production and consumption globally.
3.  Understand what malnutrition looks like, where it occurs, how it is measured, and the interactions between malnutrition (both under nutrition and obesity) and human health.
4.  Understand the basic economic principles that affect consumer food costs and consumption patterns globally.
5.  Understand how culture, communication and politics influence food availability, world food problems and malnutrition.
6.  Predict, based on available information, likely scenarios for the future of world food problems and malnutrition.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


