BIOL 43800 - General Microbiology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An examination of microbial diversity that emphasizes the interrelationship of bacteria and their environments. This includes aspects of cell composition, metabolism, and growth of microorganisms.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
3.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
4.  Exhibit proficiency in the physiology, biochemistry, and genetics of bacteria including diversity, metabolism, and gene expression regulation as well as key metabolic control mechanisms.
5.  Be familiar with taxonomic, ecological, and phylogenetic relationships among microorganisms including biogeochemical nutrient cycling, microbial diversity, and the biotechnological application of microbes to address environmental and energy problems.
6.  Able to demonstrate knowledge of how evolutionary forces impact and shape microbial function and activity.
7.  Able to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
8.  Able to demonstrate an understanding of the scientific method including hypothesis generation and testing, data collection, analysis, and interpretation.
9.  Demonstrate an understanding of prokaryotic cell structure and the major physiological processes of microorganisms that are critical for metabolism, function, and utilization of ecological niches.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BIOL 24100 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 25600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 26605 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 33300 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  BCHM 30700 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


