ASEC 28000 - Digital Storytelling

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Students will plan, shoot, and edit videos; collaborate in teams; plan and generate social media; and write feature pieces for digital platforms. Students will gain meaningful digital storytelling experiences that will enhance their understanding of various platforms and build their professional portfolios.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop compelling, audience-appropriate written and video feature stories for online platforms. This requires critical thinking (for planning, audience analysis, etc.), knowledge (effective storytelling techniques), and communication (must collaborate with classmates to coordinate topics and schedules).
2.  Plan and integrate social media strategies into your work. This requires critical thinking (must plan ahead to include these pieces from the beginning of the project, must analyze audience), communication (must create and schedule effective, audience-relevant posts), and communication (must collaborate with classmates to coordinate posts and schedules).
3.  Develop projects that meet a client's expectations and communication goals. This requires communication (with the client and source), knowledge (of effective interviewing and shooting principles), and critical thinking (to determine what audiences want to know and assess what they may already know).
4.  Communicate science topics to lay audiences. This requires communication (to translate sometimes difficult subjects in ways that even elementary age audiences will understand), critical thinking (to determine what should and should not be covered), and knowledge (of effective video storytelling techniques).
5.  Collaborate effectively with others. This requires communication (with colleagues all topics and schedules) and ethics (to be reliable team members who are just as responsible to each other as to themselves).
6.  Reflect the diversity of the community you report on. This requires ethics (students must ensure that their work is diverse and inclusive) and critical thinking (students must be aware of when their work does not reflect the diversity of the population they serve).



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ASEC 15200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  YDAE 15200 Minimum Grade of D-


