CEM 38000 - Construction Engineering Professional Development II

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will build upon the topics discussed in CEM 28000 to further prepare students for their work in the construction industry. A focus of this class will be on presentation skills. By utilizing the first or last hour of CEM 42500-Construction Practice Project, the students of CEM 38000 will have the opportunity to present and also participate as an audience and active participant in CEM 42500 Construction Practice Project. The presentations of CEM 38000 will consist of their required Summer Internship Reports, which are a compilation of the work they have completed and skills they have learned in their first two internships (CEM 19100 and CEM 29100).

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering.
2.  Demonstrate an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
3.  Demonstrate an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
4.  Demonstrate an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.
5.  Demonstrate an ability to communicate effectively.
6.  Demonstrate the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
7.  Demonstrate recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
8.  Demonstrate knowledge of contemporary issues.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CEM 28000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CEM 19100 Minimum Grade of S


