MGMT 43902 - Real Estate Capital Markets & Securitization

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course covers debt and equity secondary markets linked to real estate assets. Main topics include features of commercial and residential mortgages, and mortgage calculation; analysis of agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and other instruments; history of mortgage secondary markets; commercial mortgage-based securities (CMBS), and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). The advantages and drawbacks of the capital market products will be discussed and compared, and students develop a deep understanding of the alternatives that are available. The class consists of lectures, guest speakers, readings, class discussions, and case studies.


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a deep understanding of the history and composition of both debt and equity components of real estate capital markets.
2.  Understand the main drivers of real estate capital flows and capital pricing.
3.  Describe the structure of residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
4.  Perform a comprehensive valuation of a REIT.
5.  Structure the capitalization for a given project type.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Bus Analytics & Info Mgmt

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Integrated Business & Engr

      Marketing

      Pre Economics

      Pre-Finance

      Pre Mgmt/General Management

      Pre Mgmt/Accounting

      Pre-Marketing

      Pre-Supply Chain Info/Analytic

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Supply Chain & Operations Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 43901 Minimum Grade of C-


