ASEC 63000 - Theories Of Learning And Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The goal of this course is to introduce students to a variety of theoretical perspectives of learning and development and how they may be used in both formal, informal and non-formal educational settings. This goal will be achieved through students' analysis of key concepts, assumptions, propositions and principles of four theoretical areas: (1) Foundational Learning Theory, (2) Student Development Theory, (3) Career & Workforce Development Theory and (4) Youth Development & Experiential Learning Theory. This course will also build on students' prior exposure to behaviorist, cognitive, and constructivist approaches of learning and development. In sum, many of the theories discussed in this course will provide students with a greater understanding of human thought and behavior that will help them become more effective educators, researchers and practitioners. Permission of instructor required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate how to conduct a literature review and synthesis of the literature. 
2.  Examine the role of framing and focusing a research study using a paradigm position/epistemology, conceptual & theoretical frameworks. 
3.  Compare and contrast various theoretical perspectives of learning and development.
4.  Distinguish the basic assumptions, concepts, and principles of various theoretical perspectives of learning and development.
5.  Investigate how each theoretical perspective of learning and development can be applied to formal, informal and non-formal educational contexts.
6.  Assess how each theoretical perspective of learning and development can be used in educational research.
7.  Consider the implications of each theoretical perspective on teaching and learning formal, informal and non-formal educational contexts.
8.  Develop a critical review of a theoretical perspective of learning and development.



