VM 45200 - Managing Human Resources In Veterinary Medicine

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will focus on a variety of different topics specifically related to human resources management in the veterinary clinic and will build upon the concepts presented in VM 44200.  It will introduce students to concepts related to the interviewing and hiring process, motivating employees, using rewards and incentives, leadership and power, training employees, EEOC and employment laws, performance appraisals, progressive discipline and harassment in the workplace.  Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Compare and contrast mission statements, vision statements and core values and explain how all three play a role in human resource management.
2.  Utilize appropriate strategies for recruiting new employees and making them valuable, long-term members of the practice team.
3.  Devise suitable guidelines for motivating employees and evaluating employees' performance.
4.  Follow all appropriate employment laws when hiring, firing, and disciplining employees.
5.  Describe common employee problems and implement effective and legal strategies for handling them.
6.  Investigate employee misconduct and utilize progressive discipline when appropriate.
7.  Apply appropriate and legal strategies when planning for and firing employees




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Veterinary Technology

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VM 34500 Minimum Grade of D-


