AGRY 54400 - Environmental Organic Chemistry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (EEE 54400) The fundamental properties and processes responsible for the fate of organic chemicals in the environment, with emphasis on soil and water chemistry. Areas to be addressed will include both conceptual and theoretical aspects of processes relevant to environmental fate of contaminants; measurement, estimation, correlation, and application of the parameters most commonly used to assess various chemodynamic properties in soil-water systems.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agronomy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental properties and processes controlling the environmental fate of organic contaminants in surface and subsurface environments.
2.  Understand how variations in chemical structure change chemical behavior including solubility, volatility, acid-base speciation and reactivity.
3.  Quantify chemical distribution between soil-water, soil-air, water-air and liquid-liquid compartments.
4.  Understand and quantify how environmental and anthropogenic factors change chemical behavior and distribution in the environment.
5.  Apply partition coefficients and mass balance approaches to predict chemical distribution between various environmental compartments.
6.  Demonstrate an understanding of how abiotic and biotransformation processes affect chemical fate in the environment.
7.  Demonstrate an understanding how chemical, soil and subsurface properties impact choice of remediation strategies.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-AGRY 54400 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CHM
25700


May not be taken concurrently.
and
Rule: 1.: AGRY 25500 or NRES 25500  for a total of 1 conditions
)

AGRY
25500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.

NRES
25500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
End of rule 1.



