CHE 21100 - Introductory Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Basic principles and concepts of thermodynamics applied to chemical engineering problems; use of basic thermodynamic functions of enthalpy, entropy, free energy to solutions, phase equilibria, and chemical equilibria; thermodynamic processes and efficiencies; equations of state; and relation of macroscopic to molecular properties.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Practice Study Observation, Recitation 


Offered By: School of Chemical Engineering 

Department: Chemical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply the First Law of thermodynamics in the analysis of closed and open systems.
2.  Apply the Second Law of thermodynamics in the analysis of closed and open systems, and reversible and irreversible processes, including power cycles. 
3.  Derive and apply thermodynamic relations and relationships between thermodynamic potentials. 
4.  Estimate the physical properties of ideal and non-ideal fluids.
5.  Use chemical potentials, fugacities and activity coefficients to analyze the phase equilibrium behavior of ideal and non-ideal fluids.
6.  Use chemical potentials, fugacities and activity coefficients to evaluate single and multi-component chemical reaction equilibria for ideal and non-ideal fluids.
7.  Utilize computational tools in the solution of thermodynamics problems).




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Chemical Engineering


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHE 20500 Minimum Grade of C and (Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MATH 26100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 18200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 17400 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 27100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 26300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 17200 Minimum Grade of C-)


