NUR 63100 - Family Nurse Practitioner Preceptorship Clinical Synthesis

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  This course assists students to integrate clinical knowledge and skills from prior course work when providing care to patients across the lifespan. The Family Nurse Practitioner role is analyzed in the context of caring for patients of all ages with acute and chronic conditions   Focus is on assessment, differential diagnosis, clinical decision-making and management, as well as patient and family education within the context of primary care. Prerequisites: NUR 50700 and NUR 50200 and NUR 50300 and NUR 51600 and NUR 51100 and  NUR 51300.  Co-requisite: NUR 61100 and NUR 61500 and NUR 62200 and NUR 62700. Typically offered Summer.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply epidemiology, physiology, developmental, informatics, technology, leadership, systems, quality improvement, family, community, and health promotion theories in the primary health care of patients of all ages.
2.  Use appropriate diagnostic modalities in assessing the health care needs of patients of all ages.
3.  Synthesize clinical and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate care for acutely and chronically ill patients of all ages.
4.  Develop culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, goals, and interventions for patients of all ages.
5.  Use appropriate legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of commonly occurring acute and chronic physical and mental health problems in patients of all ages.
6.  Implement theory and research based interventions to assist patients of all ages with illness, developmental changes, psychosocial problems and environmental problems.
7.  Utilize community resources in the primary health care of individuals and families with acute and chronic conditions.
8.  Implement interdisciplinary collaboration and APN scope of practice while providing safe treatment to patients of all ages.
9.  Address the uniqueness of diverse populations in providing safe health care to patients of all ages.
10.  Apply leadership and coaching skills while providing culturally appropriate healthcare to patients of all ages with acute and chronic conditions where cultural, ethnic, quality of life and socioeconomic issues have been identified.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice


