NUR 21901 - Pathopharmacology I

Credit Hours: 3.00. An introduction to the study of underlying changes in primary physiologic regulatory mechanisms affecting homeostasis, metabolic processes, immune response, circulation, renal elimination, fluid/electrolyte and acid/base balance, sensory perception and alteration in comfort and the pharmacotherapies utilized as treatment for alterations and disease states. This introductory knowledge provides the foundation for the understanding and practice of general nursing. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe primary regulatory mechanisms affecting homeostasis, metabolic processes, immune response, circulation, renal elimination, fluid/electrolyte and acid/base balance, sensory perception and alteration in comfort.
2.  Recognize the clinical manifestations of disease resulting from genetic/genomic and physiologic alterations in body structure and function affecting homeostasis; metabolic processes; immune response; circulation; renal elimination; fluid/electrolyte and acid/base balance; sensory perception and comfort. 
3.  Describe selected diagnostic, therapeutic and pharmacologic interventions in the prevention and treatment of alterations affecting homeostasis, metabolic processes, immune response, circulation, renal elimination, fluid/electrolyte and acid/base balance, sensory perception and comfort. 
4.  Idenify major drug classifications and pharmacokinetic processes utilized in the prevention and treatment of disease with emphasis on selected, frequently prescribed medications. 
5.  Identify primary indications, contraindications, mechanism of action, potential side effects and adverse reactions of frequently prescribed medications in order to integrate pharmacologic knowledge into overall therapeutic plan for restoring or maintaining homeostasis.
6.  Identify factors which contribute to safe medication practice, risk reduction and prevention of misuse or abuse of pharmacotherapy.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 20300 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30100 Minimum Grade of C) and (Undergraduate level  BIOL 20400 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30200 Minimum Grade of C) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11100 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  CHM 11500 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of C) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of C)


