MGMT 65500 - Competitive Strategy

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  Examines how firms obtain and sustain superior returns through the development and implementation of a competitive strategy at the business-unit level.  Focus is on strategies that develop and exploit two sources of superior returns: unique value-creating resources (e.g., patents, brand equity, operational capabilities), and powerful positions in markets and supply chains.  Participants are expected to be familiar with basic competitive strategy concepts and tools, such as "five-forces analysis", the value chain, and generic strategies.  Presents a more analytical perspective of strategy, drawing from game theory. Prerequisites: MGMT 65000. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn how to analyze differential competitive positions.  Establish the source of advantage in terms of competitive position and resources firms may have. Use case analysis and discussion to do so.
2.  Identify the means of disrupting incumbent positions with entry or deter entry through pre-emption of competitive position or key resources by incumbents. Also consider mechanisms for incumbents to reduce the success of entrants by adopting some aspects of entrants offering.   Project scenarios in which entrants can be successful and also identify scenarios in which incumbents will respond aggressively.  Project pricing and financial outcomes of these choices for entrant and incumbent.
3.  Understand the competitive dynamics of business ecosystems.  Identify the drivers of success in these ecosystems by articulating the network effects associated with different offerings within an ecosystem.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-MS

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Management-PHD

      Org Behav and HR Mgmt-MS

      Management-MBA

      Management-MSIA

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


