BME 56200 - Regulatory Issues Surrounding Approval Of Biomedical Devices

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Medical devices are developed, manufactured, and distributed in a highly-regulated environment. This course primarily concerns the processes for obtaining FDA marketing approval or clearance for biomedical devices. Prior to marketing a medical device in the US, a specific governmental approval or clearance is required depending on the type of device and the risk associated with the device. This course is part of a three-course series dealing with various aspects of regulatory science. Regulatory processes for class I, II, and III devices, including combination devices, are covered with specific focus on 510(k) and PMA requirements. Approval requirements in the EU, Japan and other countries will also be briefly considered. Throughout the course, emphasis will be placed on regulatory science, regulatory strategy and principles of interacting with regulatory agencies.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use the appropriate regulatory classification and pathway for any medical device in the U.S.
2.  Describe the significance of each major component of a 510(k) submission.
3.  Describe the significance of each major component of a PMA submission.
4.  Develop awareness for the need to seek country-specific expertise to prepare submissions for countries outside the U.S.
5.  Select the appropriate messages and clearly present, in both oral and written communication, in a mock FDA meeting.
6.  Identify contents of a CER and know the strategy for writing a CER.





Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


