AGRY 35500 - Soil Morphology And Geography

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course features field experience in advanced techniques in soil morphology including the study of the relationship of soils to landscaped, common parent materials of Midwest and classification of soils in the Soil Taxonomy. Course material emphasizes the development of detailed descriptions of soil properties and how these properties directly impact the interpretations and recommendations for land use options. Use and management of soils based on landscape position and morphology will be covered including on-site waste disposal, homes with basements as well as road and street construction. Collegiate soil judging is a portion of the subject matter discussed.  Requires class trips. Students will pay individual lodging or meal expenses when necessary.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lab 1 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agronomy 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate proficiency in their chosen discipline that incorporates knowledge, skills, technology, and professional conduct.
2.  Demonstrate use of the scientific method to identify problems, formulate and test hypotheses, conduct experiments and analyze data, and derive conclusions.
3.  Demonstrate critical thinking by using data and reasoning to develop sound responses to complex problems.
4.  Demonstrate the ability to write and speak with effectiveness while considering audience and purpose.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to work effectively as part of a problem-solving team.
6.  Demonstrate knowledge of a range of cultures and an understanding of human values and points of view of other than their own. 
7.  Demonstrate ability to apply social, economic, political, and environmental principles to living in a global community.
8.  Demonstrate awareness of civic responsibility to community and society at large.
9.  Demonstrate skills necessary for lifelong learning.




