BIOL 23100 - Biology III: Cell Structure And Function

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introduction to modern cell biology through an examination of the physical and chemical properties that lead to an understanding of the molecular basis for cell function.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
2.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way. 
3.  Students will understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding.  
4.  Students will be familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism. 
5.  Students will understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism. 
6.  Students will understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes. 
7.  Graduates will understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes. 
8.  Students will understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability. 
9.  Graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels. 
10. Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills by practicing biologists including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science. 
11. Students who complete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions. 




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 13100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BTNY 12100 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  BIOL 10800 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BIOL 10900 Minimum Grade of D-)   ) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 10901 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]) or Undergraduate level  CHM 26505 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


