CNIT 25501 - Object-Oriented Programming Introduction

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces software development concepts common to modern object-oriented programming languages. Topics include: intermediate data types, decisions, repetitive structures; methods; arrays and collections; encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism; exception handling; data persistence; Database Management System (DBMS) connectivity; user interface construction; software testing and debugging; and working in teams.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify when to use all intrinsic data types of a programming language.
2.  Demonstrate how to use nested decisions and case statements.
3.  Demonstrate how to use advanced looping structures, including nesting, early exits, and recursion.
4.  Identify how and when to use method arguments, parameters, and overloading.
5.  Define and use encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
6.  Demonstrate how to handle run-time exceptions.
7.  Understand how to persist an object's state information to sequential and binary files.
8.  Understand how to persist an object's state information to a Relational Database Management System (DBMS). 
9.  Develop GUI applications.  
10. Work effectively in teams on a software development project.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Computer Engineering Tech

      Computer & Information Tech

      Cybersecurity

      Network Engineering Tech

      Systems Analysis & Design


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CNIT 15501 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CNIT 10500 Minimum Grade of C-


