ECON 36700 - Law And Economics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  It has become increasingly clear to economists, legal scholars and political scientists that it is impossible to understand economic institutions without first having an understanding of the legal framework within which they operate. Similarly, it is impossible to understand the impact of law on society without first having an understanding of economic principles. This problem is further complicated by the fact that there are often ambiguities in the written law that lead to significant differences between what the law appears to say and how the law is interpreted in the courts. This course is designed to give the student an understanding of both legal and economic principles and the relationship between them. Finally, through the use of economic analysis, the student will acquire the tools to predict the likely outcomes of particular laws and how they will affect their family and business decisions.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand better the relationship of Law and Economics, two different disciplines that both directly impact the business climate.
2.  Learn how the concepts taught in this class apply in a real world setting.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Advanced Accountancy

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      Natural Resources

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

      Social Studies Education


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C-


