PUBH 58200 - Advanced Executive Healthcare Leadership Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides advanced leadership training for healthcare executive. Topics include emotional intelligence, managing difficult conversations, successful interviewing, and employee engagement, building learning environments, adaptive leadership, and creating innovative cultures. This course is a core class for the Healthcare Leadership certificate program. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain and utilize emotional intelligence in the healthcare workplace.
2.  Be able to use multiple leadership concepts to understand leadership situations and enhance your effectiveness in the leadership process.
3.  Distinguish between leadership, coaching, and mentoring.
4.  Enhance your ability to think critically, to analyze complex and diverse concepts, and to use your reasoning, judgment and imagination to create new possibilities in leadership.
5.  Identify and discuss the behavioral practices (patterns of action) of effective leaders.
6.  Obtain skills and the ability to engage in difficult conversations.
7.  Identify and discuss the behavioral practices used by effective change leaders in multiple contexts (organizational, community, political, social/movement, and global).
8.  Articulate and explain the purpose for leading change in different healthcare contexts; Obtain skills for building learning environments.
9.  Identify a leader's role in change and how leaders evaluate the need for change, plan for change, initiate change, communicate the need for change, gain support of others for change, and sustain change.
10.  Explore other philosophical approaches and change movements to determine relevancy and practical lessons for health administration change leaders; and to critically analyze organizational change practices and leadership in case studies from the field.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites:

GR PUBH 57100 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CSR
53100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
PUBH
57100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



