CSR 41600 - Retail Supply Chain Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Supply chain management is a set of approaches utilized to efficiently integrate all parties of the supply chain to fulfill a request from a customer. Companies like Amazon, Zara, Walmart, Toyota, Dell, and Procter & Gamble are proof that excellence in supply chain management is a must to achieve industry leadership. With increasing competition around the globe, supply chain management is both a challenge and an opportunity for companies. The main goal of this course is to introduce you to the key concepts and techniques that will allow you to analyze, manage and improve supply chain processes for different industries. The course is a combination of lectures, case studies, in-class exercises, and games with the goal of defining key tradeoffs that managers need to understand and evaluate to successfully manage complex supply chains. Quantitative tools designed to evaluate these tradeoffs will be studied and used extensively throughout the course. Topics that will be covered in this course include: Managing inventory, forecasting in supply chains, the optimal design of the supply chain, transportation and distribution, bullwhip effects and dealing with uncertainty, sourcing and supply contracts.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Health & Human Services 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop an understanding of how supply chain management can improve operations efficiency and market responsiveness under uncertainty.
2.  Utilize and apply theories, concepts, and optimization techniques in analyzing, managing and improving supply chain processes for various industries.
3.  Obtain skills to assess supply chain performance and make recommendations to enhance supply chain competitiveness in today's business environment.
4.  Identify current issues and trends in global supply chain management such as sustainability, consumer health, and national security.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Retail Management

      Selling & Sales Management

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


