HDFS 45000 - Supervised Teaching In Inclusive Programs For Young Children

Credit Hours: 16.00.  This is 16 full time weeks of supervised teaching in an approved environment that serves children ages birth through 3rd grade with and without disabilities. This experience will be supervised by a HDFS faculty member and the classroom cooperating teacher. Monthly HDFS sponsored professional development seminars and additional teacher education meetings will also be required. This will partially fulfill requirements for the Indiana Early Childhood Education and the Early Childhood Special Education teaching license. Admission to Student Teaching required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

   16.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: GTC-Speaking & Listening, UC-Oral Communications, Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply previously acquired knowledge to the care and education of all young children including those with various abilities and disabilities.
2.  Demonstrate competency in the application of the standards outlined for early childhood professionals by the National Association for the Education of Young Children and the Council for Exceptional Children.
3.  Design developmentally appropriate instruction and intervention strategies based on community, school and classroom resources that meet the various needs of all young children in the student teaching environment. 
4.  Demonstrate the ability to work as part of an educational/intervention team for appropriate care and education of all young children. 
5.  Create and conduct one-to-one, small group and/or large group instruction, guidance, intervention, and developmental activities in the student teaching environment.
6.  Design and implement appropriate child assessment and evaluation procedures that influence the teaching and learning process.
7.  Evaluate their own teaching practices through self-reflection and the analysis of child learning




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 40600 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 40600 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 40900 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 40900 Minimum Grade of B-)


