ASEC 35500 - Controversial Science And Media In The Public Sphere

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will utilize case studies of controversial science news to explore the multiple factors that converge to influence how science and technology become controversial issues across a variety of social/ political domains. In addition to foundational understanding of communication theory, students will develop two primary skills: 1) a structure for the critical analysis of science news, 2) the skills to meaningfully communicate across stakeholders. The science content (GMOs, climate change, pesticide use, etc.) will provide the background information for analysis of the main focus of the course, which is in learning the communication  process for effectively communicating science to non-science audiences. Case studies and applied critical media theory will be utilized to explore such controversies as climate change, genetically modified foods, and other emergent science controversies.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: GTC-Humanistic-Artistic, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Humanities, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate forces shaping public understanding of/and engagement with/science, including the role of technology in misinformation (fake news, bots, algorithms, misinformation campaigns, and propaganda) and the role of commercial funding of media.
2.  Able to critically analyze media reports of science issues including: Types of Journalism, Levels of Completeness, and Evidence within the story.
3.  Apply reliable evidence from your critical news analysis to your projects.
4.  Identify and analyze prominent and recurrent patterns in the communication of controversial issues.
5.  Apply the skills learned to communicate controversial science to a non-science audience.
6.  Critically evaluate the evolving role of media in shaping understanding of science across democratic societies.
7.  Know content (quizzes and reflection papers).
8.  Process Knowledge (Discussion and applied projects).
9.  Use integrated knowledge to meaningfully critique others work.
10. Demonstrate process comprehension through construction of a critical news analysis of a current controversial issue.



