EAPS 11700 - Introduction To Atmospheric Science

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The weather/climate system. Solar variability and Milankovitch Theory. Atmospheric scales of motion. Chemistry of greenhouse gases and aerosols. Fundamental laws of meteorological dynamics and radiation. Weather systems, air masses and fronts. Severe storms, hurricanes and tornadoes. (Required for atmospheric sciences majors.)

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Dept Erth Atmos & Planetry Sci 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, UC-Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Appreciate the temporal and spatial scales of climate change, from Milankovitch Theory and glacial/interglacial regions, to the anthropogenic effects of greenhouse gases (GHG’s).
2.  Appreciation of how weather events collectively and cumulatively, lead to the establishment of climate.
3.  Understand the basic scales of atmospheric motion (space and time) and the classification of weather events into these scales (planetary, synoptic, mesoscale and microscale).
4.  Understand the definition of aerosols and GHG’s and their relation to weather and climate.
5.  Understand the four basic laws of radiation (beginning with Planck’s Law).
6.  Understand the fundamental laws of atmospheric motion, and some general principles of weather prediction.
7.  Understand the basic principles of cloud physics, from CCN to cloud formation and precipitation.
8.  Understand the First Law of Thermodynamics, and the general concepts of thermal convection, including lapse rates and the concept of latent heat release.
9.  Understand the behavior, including simulation and differences, of geophysical columnar vortices, from dust devils to tornadoes to hurricanes.
10.  Understand the broad context of atmospheric science, from solar physics and space weather, to meteorology and lower atmosphere weather phenomena.
11.  Understand how the planetary atmospheric circulation establishes a jet stream and the semi-permanent pattern of wind and pressure belts (e.g., the trade winds and the westerlies).
12.  Understand the formation and movement of air masses and fronts, including the formation of Extratropical Cyclones.
13.  Understand the formation of thunderstorms, including severs thunderstorms, hail and tornadoes.
14.  Understand tornado climatology in the USA, the tornado intensity scale, taxonomy and climate considerations such as ENSO pattern of El Nino and La Nina.
15.  Understand weather hazards in the field of aviation, particularly thunderstorm phenomena (such as hail and downburst winds).
16.  Understand a basic review of weather/climate and energy (from wind farms to climate changes). 





Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Atmospheric Science

      Environmental Geoscience

      Geology & Geophysics

      Planetary Sciences

      Science Education


