NUR 57700 - Advanced Practice Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing Across The Lifespan II Preceptorship

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Students engage in the Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) role in a clinical setting under the supervision of a PMHNP or Medical Doctor. Students continue to develop and broaden clinical judgment, psychiatric assessment skills, and evidenced-based treatment interventions while considering cultural influences, and developmental and functional abilities. Focus is on assessment, differential diagnosis, clinical decision-making and management, as well as patient and family education within the context of mental health. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Interpret, apply and evaluate evidence-based diagnostic modalities in assessing the psychiatric care needs of children, adolescents, adults, and older adults.
2.  Apply clinical, collateral, and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate evidence-based care for child, adolescent, adult, and older adult clients with psychiatric disorders.
3.  Professionally communicate orally and in writing with patients, treatment team members and families culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, goals and evidence-based interventions for children, adolescents, adults and older adults with psychiatric disorders.
4.  Evaluate and interpret rationale, implementation and effectiveness of psychotherapeutic interventions in a clinical setting.
5.  Implement interdisciplinary collaboration and PMHNP scope of practice to provide safe, ethical, and evidence-based treatment for children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
6.  Address the uniqueness of diverse populations in providing safe, ethical and evidence-based psychiatric treatment to children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
7.  Use legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of medical and psychiatric disorders in children, adolescents, adults, and older adults.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-CPOSTM


