ECON 37300 - Computational Economics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The main goal of this course is to introduce economics students to the computation, programming, and data analysis in Python. In the first part of the course, we will cover basic programming techniques  and the use of popular Python packages for data analysis. In the second part of the course, we will consider more advanced programming techniques including numerical methods, dynamic programming, and simulation-based methods. Throughout the course we will consider a number applications related to microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics covered in the Economics program curriculum.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Have a working knowledge of programming techniques in Python.
2.  Use scientific computing packages to analyze economic data.
3.  Possess an understanding of numerical methods used to solve economic models.
4.  Use visualization tools to communicate computational results.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  STAT 30300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 30500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  STAT 35000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  STAT 51100 Minimum Grade of C-


