VM 41001 - International Practicum

Credit Hours: 4.00.  The student will experience an integrated employment situation combined with veterinary team interaction to augment his/her specialized CoVM clinical learning experiences. The student will work under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian or credentialed veterinary technician designee of tech veterinarian. The student is required to complete a pre-departure orientation with the PVM Director of International Programs. Typically offered Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Practicum, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform technical duties in medical and surgical nursing, imaging, laboratory procedures, anesthesia, and client interaction when working in a practice setting.
2.  Perform tech duties required of the position in the industry setting.
3.  Observe and record the case cycle concept of vet med in its components of history, assessment, problem listing, interventions and actions, potential problems encountered, patient outcomes and evaluations, and discharge planning as it pertains to veterinary nursing.
4.  Identify and critically address management issues.
5.  Create and deliver an oral presentation.
6.  Develop communication skills.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VM 34400 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CPB 35100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CPB 35200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 34500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 34210 Minimum Grade of D-


