ECE 60421 - Nanophotonics And Metamaterials

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course will cover nanoscale processes and devices and their applications for manipulating light on the nanoscale. The following topics will be covered: Fundamentals, Maxwell's equations, light-matter interaction, dispersion, EM properties of nanostructures; Photonic crystals and photonic crystal fibers; Photonic and plasmonic nanocircuits; Silicon nanophotonics; Metal optics; Manipulating light with plasmonic nanostructures; Plasmonic nano-sensors; Near-field optics; Metamaterials: artificial magnetism and negative refractive index; Metamaterials: superlens and hyperlens; Transformation optics and cloaking; Nanolasers; Tunable and active plasmonic materials; Refractory plasmonics; Plasmonics for energy conversion, data storage and biomed applications; Metasurfaces; Intro to quantum photonics. Prerequisites by Topic: Basic knowledge of electromagnetism and solid state materials, Maxwell equations and band structure of solids.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Derive, calculate and analyze the optical properties of metals including plasma frequency, relaxation time, dielectric constant, reflection and transmission coefficients.
2.  Derive and analyze the optical properties of nanophotonic systems including color centers in solids, metallic nanoparticles, metal-dielectric slabs, thin metal films, metamaterial slabs with negative refraction.
3.  Analyze surface plasmon polariton waveguides and waveguide properties.
4.  Articulate the fundamentals of optics of structured media.
5.  Demonstrate an understanding of novel concepts in photonics, including photonic crystals, metamaterials, nanoscale interconnects, metal optics, transformation optics, nanolasers, nanosensors, super- and hyperlens and quantum nanophotonics.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


