ASEC 44000 - Methods Of Teaching Agricultural Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Principles and procedures for teaching agricultural science and business in public schools. Must be admitted to teacher education program.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Describe the role of the instructor in the learning process, including characteristics of effective instructors and teaching.
2. Identify factors affecting individual learner differences.
3. Prepare lesson plans which address diversity in student populations.
4. Correctly demonstrate the use of the teacher-centered, social interaction, and student-centered learning activities within the agricultural education setting.
5. Develop and teach lessons using appropriate learning activities which build learners' agricultural-related conceptual understandings, relevant skills, and problem-solving strategies.
6. Select appropriate educational technology to enhance learners' agricultural-related conceptual understandings, relevant skills, and problem-solving strategies.
7. Design lessons which incorporate the use of agricultural teaching laboratories and/or equipment.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDCI 20500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  EDCI 28500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  EDPS 23500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  EDPS 26500 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] and (Undergraduate level  ASEC 31800 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  YDAE 31800 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]) and (Undergraduate level  ASEC 31900 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  YDAE 31900 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


