HTM 33100 - Hospitality And Tourism Sales And Service

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Application of sales and customer service methods used to generate revenues for hospitality and tourism businesses.  Emphasis is placed on a hands-on assignment which requires students to identify a product that they will market and sell, as well as participate in a sales blitz.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop systematic solutions to a wide range of facility management problems.
2.  Explain how systems within a facility function, and what is involved in keeping them functioning properly.
3.  Describe what's involved in operating a maintenance department and evaluate their efforts.
4.  Describe the functions of the major pieces of food service equipment and how to purchase each.
5.  Describe how operations can conserve utilities and the basic criteria for LEED certification.
1.  Apply marketing principles to the sales process in hospitality and tourism industry.
2.  Distinguish between ethical and non-ethical behaviors on the part of sales professionals.
3.  Identify the buying style of the customer and adapt sales pitch and pace to maximize sales potential.
4.  Design a strategy to work with others to accomplish sales goals.
5.  Identify, market, and sell a tangible product to the general public.
6.  Apply professionalism and customer service principles to the sales process.
7.  Apply fundamental accounting skills to formulate, monitor, and accomplish self-imposed sales goals.
8.  Apply sales techniques in an actual hospitality and tourism business setting.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 23100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 32400 Minimum Grade of C-


