ECE 41437 - ASIC Fabrication And Test I

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The first semester of a two-semester sequence to give teams of 3 to 6 students the experience of designing an ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit), having the chip fabricated and testing it. The team of students will develop requirements for a design, prepare the design using VHDL ((VHSIC(very high speed integrated circuit) Hardware Description Language)), Verilog, or schematic entry tools, create and use test benches to functionally verify the design, use automated tools to prepare a circuit layout, verify the final layout, submit the layout for fabrication, prepare a physical test bed, test or demonstrate the chip, and document all aspects of the design and test results. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain critical steps in the preparation of an ASIC design for fabrication and the tools required to perform these steps: functional verification, logical synthesis, physical layout, physical verification, and timing verification.
2.  An ability to use advanced ASIC design software for at least two of the following: functional verification, logical synthesis, physical layout, physical verification, and timing verification.  Create or use scripts to automate repetitive aspects of the process.
3.  An ability to define functional and physical requirements for an ASIC design of the team's choosing.
4.  An ability to define a circuit architecture that can be expected to meet functional requirements subject to performance and area constraints.
5.  An ability to estimate speed, throughput, and expected circuit area to ensure that constraints are satisfied.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Elec & Computer Engr


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ECE 33700 Minimum Grade of D-


