HTM 51100 - Hospitality Business Law And Risk Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides an overview and analysis of the legal aspects of managing a hospitality and tourism business. Risk management principles will be utilized to develop liability mitigation plans. Discussion board and case studies will be utilized to facilitate students' understanding and application of legal concepts for managing and owning businesses. Topics covered include: the rights and responsibilities of hospitality businesses and owners in the areas of civil rights, employment law, negligence, contract law, relationships with guests and others, licensing, real estate law, and product liability; the principles of risk management; and the fundamentals of business insurance. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply basic legal principles to evaluate a situation and determine the most likely legal outcome then use the principles of risk management to create a corrective plan to reduce liability. 
2.  Describe legal and ethical relationships standards for interactions with guests, other patrons, tenants, suppliers, and employees. 
3.  Determine if legal and ethical relationship standards have been breached and what liability if any is faced by each party. 
4.  Utilize the dynamics of risk management to develop a comprehensive risk management plan for a hospitality and tourism operation. 
5.  Describe and define the different types of insurance options available to hospitality and tourism operations and define why and how certain insurance options are applicable to specific operations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Hosp Tour Mgmt-MS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


