MSE 58600 - Experimental Characterization Of Advanced Composite Materials

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The characterization of advanced composite materials is a combined lecture/laboratory course in which polymeric composite laminates will be fabricated of carbon fiber epoxy and subjected to classical test methods appropriate to the determination of the anisotropic, thermoelastic properties. Properties measured will include thermal expansion coefficients, anisotropic elastic constants, biaxial strength properties and interlaminar fracture strengths. The autoclave processing of composite laminates will be discussed and the consolidation, degree of cure and glass transition temperature of the polymeric matrix will be modeled. Microscopic analysis of the composite will be carried out to observe microstructure and measure composition fractions. Lectures will precede each experiment. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: School of Materials Engr 

Department: Materials Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Be familiar with test methods for advanced composite materials.
2.  Carry out these tests to produce property data for a specific material system including fabrication of test specimens, fiber volume fraction, lamina longitudinal tensile tests, lamina shear test, lamina off-axis tensile test, lamina flexural test, lamina thermoelastic test, laminate tensile test, laminate thermoelastic test, laminate notch strength test, mode I interlaminar fracture test, mode II interlaminar fracture test.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      College of Engineering

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


