EDCI 53400 - Teaching And Learning Geometry And Measurement

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to provide opportunities for mathematics educators to develop understanding of teaching and learning in the related domains of geometry and measurement. Central to this work is the construction of models of learners' understandings of geometry and measurement and the use of models to design instruction. Geometry, as a discipline in school mathematics, has historically and more currently been debated. In this course we will explore research in the teaching and learning of geometry and measurement. A synthesis of select literature will inform our efforts to develop models of learners' geometric reasoning and understanding of measurement. We will move past the development of models to the design of instruction meant to support understandings of concepts that utilizes technology. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer




    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
  1.  Develop models of learner's understanding of measurement and concepts in geometry.
  2.  Use models of learner's understanding to design and select appropriate and productive learning opportunities.
  3.  Develop knowledge of the history of geometry as a school mathematics subject in the United States.
  4.  Develop and articulate a perspective on teaching and learning geometry and measurement with technology.
  5.  Synthesize existing research to support inquiry in the teaching and learning of geometry and measurement.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


