AT 48000 - Advanced Aviation Manufacturing (Lean Six Sigma Methodologies)

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Course is a selective choice in the AET program. This is a study of advanced aviation manufacturing principles, lean six sigma methodologies and project management basics. Permission of instructor required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Aviation Technology 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop the competencies to utilize required advanced manufacturing processes to operate a manufacturing facility.
2.  Cultivate the ability to utilize advanced process quality planning methods to implement a quality program in a manufacturing facility.
3.  Gain the knowledge and experience required to effectively implement supply chain management techniques and logistic programs in a manufacturing facility. 
4.  Incorporate an effective continuous improvement process to be utilized and promoted throughout the curriculum.
5.  Select and apply the knowledge, techniques, skills, and modern tools of the discipline to broadly-defined engineering technology activities.
6.  Select and apply knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering, and technology to engineering technology problems that require the application of principles and applied procedures or methodologies.
7.  Conduct standard tests and measurements; to conduct, analyze, and interpret experiments.
8.  Apply project-based learning techniques to improve processes, and communicate a commitment to quality, timeliness, and continuous improvement. All the objectives listed are crucial in the manufacturing world.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


