EPCS 10100 - First Year Participation In EPICS

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Together, Engineering Projects in Community Service (EPICS) courses create a vertical project track under which students work in multidisciplinary teams on long-term engineering-based design projects. Projects of at least one-year in duration are intended to solve real problems that are defined in consultation with "customers" from not-for-profit community and education organizations.  EPCS courses are open to students from all disciplines; each student contributes expertise in his/her academic discipline.  Each team consists of a mix of first year, sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Students are encouraged to participate in an EPICS project team for two or more semesters. First year students participating in EPCS 10100 gain insight into the specific project, and more generally, into the design and development process. They attend planning and reporting meetings with the customer and are expected attend all team meetings.  Under the mentorship of the team's sophomores, juniors and seniors they perform and report upon tasks consistent with their level of discipline expertise. May be repeated for credit. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: Engr Prog In Community Service 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      IUPUI

      West Lafayette

      Columbus


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 5 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understand the design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Able to identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Aware of the customer.
5.  Able to function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Able to communicate effectively with audiences with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Aware of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Appreciate the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


