VM 45300 - The Role Of The Clinical Research Technician

Credit Hours: 1.00. This course is aimed for the student with a strong interest in clinical trial research. The student will gain a broader knowledge of regulatory bodies involved in research and the vital team role the clinical research technician/nurse plays during clinical trials. The student will gain exposure to histology preparations, microtome use and immuno-histological staining procedures as well as receiving clinical cases from current oncology trials. Enrollment will be capped to four students per semester. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the technician's role in maintaining communication between the client, referring veterinarian and the PI. 
2.  Obtain detailed patient histories to determine the progression and/or remission of the disease, response to treatment regimen, client call-backs and updating information to the referring veterinarian. 
3.  Describe the roles and purpose of IACUC and major regulatory entities involved in research.
4.  Demonstrate basic knowledge of the purpose of research protocol and mechanism by which amendments are made.  
5.  Use computer software such as Excel or other spreadsheet software to provide organization in research protocols.
6.  Perform literature searches on a research project.
7.  Describe how to make basic histological preparations, how to use a microtome and perform staining procedures such as Hematoxylin & Eosin.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VM 32300 Minimum Grade of D-


