HTM 44100 - Financial Management For The Hospitality Industry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course deals with subjects and issues facing a hospitality financial manager.  The primary purposes of this course are to understand the role of financial management, to learn analytic concepts and managerial tools to make capital investment decisions and to become familiar with major financial instruments and concepts such as time value of money, risk-return, bond and stock valuation, capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure and dividend policy.  This course also handles hospitality-specific cases and readings for investments, capital structure, and dividends.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify financial management roles in hospitality industry.
2.  Explain financial statements and perform financial statement analysis.
3.  Utilize financial concepts/tools such as the time value of money.
4.  Apply applicable capital budgeting techniques to the hospitality industry. Determine initial investment cash flows.
5.  Explain the concepts of risk/return, and risk preference, investment portfolio, and the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM).
6.  Explain the cost of capital concept, cost of debt and stock, weighted average cost of capital, and marginal cost and investment decision.
7.  Explain a firms' capital structure and describe how to choose optimal capital structure.
8.  Explain dividend fundamentals and describe factors affecting dividend policy.
9.  Describe interest rates, corporate bonds, and bond valuation.
10.  Compare and contrast different types of stock and describe the concept of stock valuation.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 24100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  TCEM 24100 Minimum Grade of D-


