EPCS 40200 - Senior Participation In EPICS

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Continuation of EPCS courses (see EPCS 10100). Seniors are responsible for the management tasks of planning and organizing their team project activity.  They are expected to contribute expertise from their discipline to the design of the team's projects throughout most of the design process phases of problem identification, specification development, design, production, and deployment.  Seniors will also meet with the customer and mentor the freshman, sophomores and juniors.  Seniors using EPCS 40100/40200 to fulfill capstone or design requirements where approved for their major may be required to satisfy additional course requirements specified by their degree program.  EPCS 40200 is offered for two credits.  The EPICS procedures manual provides information on expected relative workload for EPCS 40100 and EPCS 40200 students.  May not be taken concurrently with EPCS 40100.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: Engr Prog In Community Service 


Course Attributes: M Professional Electives, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      IUPUI

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understand design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Able to identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Aware of the customer.
5.  Able to function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Able to communicate effectively with audiences with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Aware of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Appreciate the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


