CGT 55500 - Game Development II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces students to the advanced concepts, technologies, skills that enable the creation of sophisticated video games, simulations, and game systems. Students are taught using student-led, active-learning pedagogy in which students co-develop and present lectures, demonstrations, and assignments for their peers, with the facilitation of the course instructor. A thorough understanding of how game engines work is therefore a requisite element of the game development process and lever for research in most domains involving interactive simulations and games. As game engine development, research, and application is a large and complex topic, the course material is distributed across two semesters. In addition to the continuation of technical topics this course also emphasizes the experiential, conceptual, and aesthetic dimensions of game development, prioritizing implementation completeness with creative, aesthetically-pleasing implementations that are informed by current research. As research in this field continues to rapidly iterate, the latest findings are incorporated into each new offering of the course, refreshing its content as the technology evolves in its implementation and theoretical underpinnings. Production of original research focused upon an aspect of game development or game engine design is required. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Interpret, describe, and present the theory and implementation of an advanced game development topic via student-led in-class lecture.
2.  Present to a classroom the theory and implementation within a scientific paper or set of papers that relate to an aspect of game development and lead a subsequent discussion surrounding said implementation.
3.  Extract practicable production/development information from papers, books, vendor documentation and ad hoc sources to solve open-ended technical problems.
4.  Create (or extend from the previous course) a technically sound video game prototype within a team-based production environment.
5.  Generate and test a research hypotheses related to games, game technology, or game development processes.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


