ASEC 58500 - Science Communication

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course utilizes foundational research and commentary from scholars to track the evolution of media and our ability as scientists to understand and effectively communicate these issues to a non-science audience. Science and technology are evolving faster than societies ability to understand, assimilate, and make policies to address these increasingly complex issues. As a result, controversies arise over issues such as climate change, forest management, genetically modified foods, energy choices, genetic engineering, nanotechnology, water management, and agricultural practices, etc. This course covers the range of issues in the field of science communication including: the nature of science, how to translate evidence for a lay audience, media practices, reporting and qualifying uncertainty, human psychology and belief systems, information processing, and the most current research for messaging science. We will work together to examine the foundational scholarly literature in this area and how it is/ or is not reflected in construction of popular media. You will use this knowledge to construct both compelling oral science narratives, and a science story for popular consumption.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Gain a foundational understanding of science communication theory.
2.  Develop a working understanding of the psychology of the communication audience.
3.  Utilize theory to analyze and deconstruct popular press stories.
4.  Design strategies for diffusing controversial issues.
5.  Evaluate the efficacy of communication strategies in current use, and in peer communication products.
6.  Apply science communication theory in the design of both oral and written popular press stories.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


