FNR 37200 - Forestry Practicum

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Specific field instruction in forestry.  Students pay university tuition plus a fee for living facilities and subsistence. Typically offered Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Perform basic surveying skills.
2.  Perform basic GIS/GPS operations.
3.  Perform forest inventory and measurement techniques.
4.  Utilize computer applications and analysis of inventory data.
5.  Define silvicultural terminology.
6.  Explain ecological concepts related to forest-stand development.
7.  Explain how forest management affects various resources including: soil, water, timber, wildlife, biodiversity, aesthetics, and forest health.
8.  Describe tree improvement, seedling production, and reforestation practices.
9.  Plant a seedling properly and understand how to check planting quality of a planting crew.
10.  Explain what management practices can be used to promote forest health.
11.  Explain the differences in primary production processes for paper, dimensional lumber and engineered wood.
12.  Explain the differences in primary production processes for OSB and paper.
13.  Estimate the stumpage value of a stand.
14.  Assess plant biodiversity of a stand.
15.  Estimate recreational values of a national forest.
16.  Describe flows of matter and energy in coupled human and natural systems.
17.  Discuss how drivers of ecological processes change across an urban-rural gradient.
18.  Compare and contrast forest ecosystem structure and function in urban and rural settings, including diversity and distribution of organisms, landcover types, and ecosystem services.
19.  Discuss provisioning of ecosystem services in urban and rural ecosystems; compare and contrast green vs grey infrastructure; identify areas of traditionally grey infrastructure that have the potential to integrate green infrastructure.
20.  Recognize the various types of nursery stock available for planting and their purpose.
21.  Describe the best management practices for installing a landscape-scale tree in the urban environment.
22.  Demonstrate proper technique for planting and transplanting trees by installing a tree using best management practices.
23.  Explain why arborists climb trees.
24.  Describe situational awareness of tree work aloft including H.O.P.E.
25.  Recognize the basic equipment for ascending a tree and how they are applied in climbing operations.
26.  Demonstrate basic ascending and descending techniques for access to the tree.
27.  Explain the benefits of trees.
28.  Describe tree value and how they contribute to ecosystem services.
29.  Explain why trees should be assessed for risk.
30.  Identify basic and advanced tools used in a risk assessment.
31.  Recognize typical defects found in trees and their relative risk factor.
32.  Demonstrate the principles of a basic risk assessment for trees.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  FNR 37050 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


