EDCI 22200 - Knowing The World Through Mathematics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  In this course, Knowing the World Through mathematics, students will connect their situated experiences to larger trends in equity and social justice around the globe through mathematical investigations embedded in the context of the United Nations 2030 agenda (United Nations, 2015). Students in this course will make use of mathematics and global policy documents to critically interpret, model, and represent world phenomena.  Students will collaboratively analyze quantitative information gathered through trustworthy, globally representative data sets and individual survey and questionnaire items to investigate local experiences in relation to students' area(s) of interest. Students will learn about and utilize the GAISE Framework for Statistical Problem Solving (Franklin, et al.2005) and the Four Dimensions of Equity in Mathematics Education (Gutierrez, 20120 to ground their discussions and deliverables for Knowing the World Through Mathematics. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Quantitative Reasoning, UC-Quantitative Reasoning 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use a critical mathematics perspective to interpret world patterns, situations, and events.
2.  Create mathematical models of world phenomena.
3.  Use multiple mathematical representations to present global issues.
4.  Identify and implement appropriate mathematical strategies to investigate world phenomena.
5.  Express mathematical arguments related to world phenomena.
6.  Use mathematics to explore global policy documents.
7.  Explore world phenomena through quantitative (and qualitative) methods.



