HDFS 42000 - Developmental Foundations Of Infant And Toddler Curriculum

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Study of typical and atypical development in infants and toddlers as well as implication for practice. Focuses on infant toddler developmental assessment and designing and implementing learning activities in all developmental areas and enhancing parent/professional relationships. Includes a practicum experience with infants and toddlers. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire knowledge of the needs, normal development patterns, and important variations in development (including delays and disabilities) of children from prenatal period to 3 years.
2.  Acquire skills in designing, maintaining, and evaluating safe, supportive, stimulating environments for infants and toddlers.
3.  Acquire knowledge and skills in implementing developmentally-appropriate and culturally-appropriate assessment and programming for infants and toddlers.
4.  Acquire skills providing basic care, education, and guidance for children under 3 years that may be applied in child care settings, family homes, or health care settings.
5.  Acquire skills in developing supportive caregiving relationships with infants and toddlers.
6.  Acquire skills in collaborating with key adults in infants' and toddlers' lives, including parents, other family members, and allied professionals.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Developmental & Family Science

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31000 Minimum Grade of B-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 31100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])


