EDCI 55000 - Career Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An overview of contemporary legislation, educational reform, trends, and issues; career education program models; vocational and technical education, technology prep, and school-to-work systems; partnerships; foundations of career education; career development; curriculum; career guidance and counseling; career assessment; career planning practices; learning styles and instructional strategies; career information sources and resources; exemplary programs; and special needs populations and practices. Typically offered Summer Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the major legislative provisions and educational reforms affecting the delivery of career education.
2.  Evaluate significant trends in career education, and professional and social issues.
3.  Identify and adapt (a) career education model(s).
4.  Describe the Career and Technical Education, Tech Prep, Career Pathways, and School-to-Career delivery systems.
5.  Discuss effective partnerships between and among the school, the community, and business and industry.
6.  Describe the foundations of career education.
7.  Explain the career development process.
8.  Identify the roles of elementary, middle, high school, postsecondary, and adult education; and business and industry in career education.
9.  Develop career education curriculum; career clusters and pathways; and occupational, job, and task analysis.
10.  Apply career guidance and counseling practices and procedures.
11.  Utilize career assessment strategies.
12.  Implement career planning practices and procedures.
13.  Adapt appropriate learning styles and instructional strategies for individual learners.
14.  Locate and use career information sources.
15.  Identify, select, and utilize appropriate career information resources related to the school, community, governmental agency, occupational, and professional resources.
16.  Identify, compare, contrast, and adapt exemplary career education programs.
17.  Identify special needs populations and effective practices.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


