VM 86700 - Veterinary Medicine Comes Of Age

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Students will study early veterinary contributions to biomedical science; how livestock production was enhanced by veterinary specialists; companion animal medicine; bioethics, animal experimentation, and sentience; overcoming the exclusion of women, and the evolving spectrum of opportunity in veterinary careers. Particular attention will be paid to works that help demonstrate man's fascination with animals and their well-being. This course is appropriate for students with no previous study of history or art history. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the fine tradition in veterinary anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, and veterinary leadership in early twentieth-century parasitology.
2.  Explain Rudolf Virchow's reform in cellular pathology, the contributions of William Osler, Duncan McEachran, and others to veterinary medicine, and the establishment of the Bureau of Animal Industry.
3.  Make the historical case for a veterinary role in public health.
4.  Describe the transformation of veterinary surgery and practice through the contributions of Sir Frederick Hobday, and the establishment of the American Animal Hospital Association.
5.  Discuss early activists who protested animal abuses in society.
6.  Discuss the new profession from 1762 to the present time, and overcoming the exclusion of women.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Veterinary Medicine-DVM

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year

      Professional Second Year


