VIP 37920 - Junior Participation In Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP)

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course provides an opportunity for undergraduate students to engage in authentic and extended research and design projects related to active research areas of Purdue faculty members and national, international, and industry-sponsored design challenges. Students will work on interdisciplinary and vertically-integrated teams (first-year through seniors) with faculty and graduate student mentors to address these real-world research and design challenges.  Students will participate in weekly lectures and professional development activities that include topics related to design, research, documentation and technical writing, communication, leadership and teamwork, ethics, project management, intellectual property, information literacy, and introduction to a broad range of applicable research topics, technologies and development tools. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply engineering design to create a product (device, system, process, software, etc.) that meets the specified needs of this engineering design experience with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors.
2.  Develop and conduct experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions related to the development of the product of this engineering design experience.
3.  Identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems arising from this engineering design experience by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics.
4.  Function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives associated with this design experience
5.  Communicate effectively with a range of audiences appropriate to this design experience in both a written report and oral presentation.
6.  Acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies to complete the engineering design experience associated with this course.
7.  Recognize ethical and professional responsibilities associated with this engineering design experience and make informed judgments which must consider the impact of the product of this engineering design experience in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.



