FNR 43900 - Silviculture

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course details common silvicultural systems used in North America for establishment and tending of forest stands for a variety of objectives. Topics range from stand dynamics to thinning practices and regenerative harvest systems in naturally regenerated forests. Lectures focus is on theoretical concepts in order to allow students to apply their knowledge to North American forest ecosystems, while the laboratory portion of this course includes practical experience in marking silvicultural prescriptions and conducting silvicultural treatments. Lab projects emphasize critical thinking, data-driven decision-making (using growth and yield models), technical writing and oral communication. Permission of department required. Credit cannot be earned for both FNR 33800 and FNR 43900.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Be fluent in technical silvicultural terminology.
2. Develop and critically evaluate the effectiveness of alternative site preparation, regeneration, stand tending, and harvesting methods for natural stands.
3. Describe the impacts of silvicultural practices on soil resources, forest health, timber production, wildlife habitat, biodiversity, aesthetics and other aspects in natural stands.
4. Appraise the ecological and economic costs/benefits for various silvicultural treatments.
5. Use growth-and-yield models (i.e., FVS) to help predict future stand development and evaluate silvicultural alternatives (i.e., data-driven decision making).
6. Design silvicultural prescriptions that are applicable to Central Hardwood forests.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Forestry


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  FNR 22500 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  FNR 33100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] and Undergraduate level  FNR 35300 Minimum Grade of D-


