VCS 86003 - Small Animal After-Hours Care & ICU Rotation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide experience in the principles of intensive medical care and management of hospitalized small animal cases. This course will provide learning opportunities for students to practice skills and to gain experience assessing and working with hospitalized patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital wards during after-hours shifts (including evenings, overnights, and weekends dependent upon student numbers) while working with attending clinician(s) and nursing staff. As emergency caseload and ICU populations are unscheduled and their timing is unpredictable there may be both in-hospital shifts as well as times that students are on call during this rotation. (129 clinical hours). Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate appropriate sanitation for an ICU run.
2.  Demonstrate appropriate sanitation for an ICU cage.
3.  Identify and use all the common equipment in the ICU: doppler blood pressure unites, oscillometric blood pressure unites, continuous ECG monitoring, syringe pumps, IV fluids pumps (all models), omnicell, various warming unites.
4.  Empty and quantify drains and urine collection bags using appropriate aseptic technique.
5.  Demonstrate appropriate knowledge and utilization of the Snyder oxygen cage.
6.  Set up the oxygen cage door and provide oxygen in the cage.
7.  Set up and provide flow-by oxygen.
8.  Use PPE appropriately for isolation and barrier patients.
9.  Place peripheral IV catheters (3 placements minimum during the rotation).
10.  Wrap IV catheters appropriately (including central lines).
11.  Place a urinary catheter (either indwelling or temporary) at least once during the rotation.
12. Meet a fellow student or clinician at the door of ICU with a patient that they would like to check into ICU. Take the patient from the student or clinician and set up the cage, catheter, fluids, medications, etc required to allow the student or clinician on the case to focus on writing the treatment orders.
13.  Draw up all medications required overnight for all cases in the ICU if not already completed by the student on the case after checking with the student or clinician to ensure the animal is continuing to receive those medications overnight.
14.  Note missing information on ICU treatment sheets. Contact the clinician or student on the case to obtain that missing information (ex. clinician phone numbers, call parameters, etc.).
15.  Be comfortable and competent contacting a clinician about a situation where the call parameters dictate that the clinician be called. Document the information discussed on the phone. Communicate the information to the technicians. Complete the doctor's directive.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


