BMS 23700 - Applied Physiology With Clinical Correlations I

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course introduces students to the general physiology of mammalian body systems and physiological processes. This course will address the functions of the different systems and homeostasis; the functions of the cell and its different compartments; solute transport, blood and immunity; general functions of the nervous system, reflexes and special senses; the functions of the nerve and muscle, the cardiovascular system; and the digestive system. The course provides the basic physiological concepts of various organ systems and clinical correlations that emphasize how understanding of basic physiological concepts help students solve problems. The clinical correlations and the students-centered learning activities are deigned to promote critical thinking, team work, communication skills, and problem solving. The targeted undergraduate students are: Pre-vet students, animal science majors, wildlife majors, and students in biological sciences and biomedical engineering, and other students interested in use of animals as models for human diseases. Permission of instructor required.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the organs that makes each system and list the major functions of each system.
2.  Explain how each system activities are regulated.
3.  Discuss the different physiological processes that occur at cells, organs, and systems levels.
4.  Compare and contrast between the functions of regulatory systems and other systems in the body.
5.  Summarize the contribution of different systems to the maintenance of the internal environment in which cells live.
6.  Use basic physiological concepts to understand clinical correlations. 




