VCS 80616 - Small Animal Clinical Nutrition

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This nutrition course presents the established knowledge of metabolism and physiological chemistry pertaining to nutrients and the control of biochemical pathways at the gene, cell, organ, and system level. The goal of this course is to provide the fundamentals of nutrient metabolism while discussing nutritional modification in the management of disease. At the completion of this course, the veterinary student should be proficient in recognizing a nutrition-related problem in a clinical patient, conducting a thorough nutritional assessment, and constructing appropriate nutritional strategies for both the pet and client. The veterinary student will achieve an understanding of systemic metabolism that can be applied to the contemporary practice of veterinary medicine. Typically offered Spring Summer.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the role of the practitioner in incorporating evidence-based nutrition plans for all life stages.
2.  List the components of a complete nutritional assessment for both dogs and cats. 
3.  Define the role of nutrition throughout the lifecycle for health to support proper growth, maturation, aging, lactation, and gestation. 
4.  Describe the impact of nutrient deficiency for each lifestage.
5.  Demonstrate ability to calculate daily energy needs for all lifestages, during illness, and for weight loss programs. 
6.  Identify key nutrients of concern in common diseases and identify the key characteristics found in the nutrient profile of an appropriate therapeutic diet. 
7.  Develop a nutritional plan for common nutritional problems presented to a small animal practitioner. 
8.  List options for assisted-feeding to include potential limitations for each technique. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


