PHRM 86900 - Practice Management And Marketing Of Professional Services

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Introduces essential pharmacy practice managerial skills including personnel management, addressing conflict, CQI, change management and leadership.  Builds upon these skills in the development of a business plan to implement an innovative pharmacy service.  Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain key concepts and legal stipulations related to hiring, performance assessment and communicating with work associates and employees.
2.  Explain the characteristics that best describe themselves in a work setting (DiSC) and how these affect individual and team work.
3.  Describe the four steps in LEAN theory and apply it to a variety of health care settings and its place in overall quality improvement measures.
4.  Ascertain data and statistics about the practices and populations of a specific health care market.
5.  Develop marketing materials based on a target audience(s).
6.  Conceptualize and project the financial and clinical impact of a new product or service on an existing organization/system.
7.  Justify and defend an innovative service or product.
8.  Write a complete business plan addressing, at minimum, an executive summary, purpose, background, program description, financial projections and conclusion/summary.
9.  Present on an innovative pharmacy service covering pertinent and persuasive information.
10.  Justify and defend an innovative service or product.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 84900 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 87000 Minimum Grade of D-


