COM 60811 - Leadership And Global Strategic Communication

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Over the last decade, the field of strategic communication has grown rapidly. The work of strategic communication professionals requires coordinated responses between distinct organizational units that are often separated by time and space. These conditions necessitate effective leadership. Further complicating leadership in these contexts is the fact that the work of strategic communication has increasingly become global in nature. This course provides students with theoretical background in leadership and global strategic communication, as well as the opportunity to apply what they learn to strategic communication cases and to their own professional experiences. It also encourages them to think proactively about leadership challenges in these contexts and to articulate theoretically-informed analyses and evaluations of leadership in action. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Brian Lamb School of Comm 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Exhibit mastery of theories related to leadership and to strategic communication in global contexts. 
2.  Articulate the relationship between theory and the practice of leadership as it relates to global strategic communication, and apply theoretical concepts and principles to real world contexts.
3.  Explain the role of leadership and culture in global strategic communication. 
4.  Compare and contrast notions of leadership, corporate social responsibility, and negotiation across cultural contexts. 
5.  Identify the unique challenges experienced when leaders engage in strategic communication practices globally. 
6.  Evaluate the current knowledge base and "best practices" in global strategic communication. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


