NS 41300 - Naval Leadership And Ethics

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course completes the final preparations of ensigns and second lieutenants for service in the Navy and Marine Corps. The course integrates an intellectual exploration of Western moral traditions and ethical philosophy with a variety of topics, such as military leadership, core values, professional ethics, the UCMJ and Navy regulations, and discussions relating to the roles of enlisted members, junior and senior officers, command relationships, and the conduct of warfare. The course provides midshipmen with a foundation of moral traditions, combined with a discussion of actual current and historical events in the Navy and Marine Corps, to prepare them for the roles and responsibilities of leadership in the Naval Service of the 21st century. Permission of instructor required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Naval Science 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Military, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the role of commissioned officers as members of the U.S. Armed Forces and the obligations and responsibilities assumed by taking the oath of office, including the constitutional requirement for civilian control.
2.  Explain the naval officer’s roles and responsibilities as a member of the profession of arms.
3.  Explain the significance of special trust and confidence vested in commissioned officers.
4.  Explain the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), the practice of military law, and the applications of regulations as they may involve a junior officer in the performance of duties.
5.  Explain the purpose, scope, and constitutional basis of Navy regulations and the UCMJ, relating them to personal conduct in the military service.
6.  Explain the professional, moral, and ethical responsibilities of the naval officer.
7.  Explain the relationship of integrity, moral courage, and ethical behavior to authority, responsibility, and accountability.
8.  Demonstrate, by personal example, the professional attributes and behaviors of a naval officer.
9.  Describe how leadership by example influences an officer’s ability to effectively lead in an organization.



