BME 39000 - Professional Development And Design In Biomedical Engineering

Credit Hours: 2.00. Introduction to a diverse spectrum of current topics relevant to the technical, professional, and career aspects of Biomedical Engineers. The course topics will focus on the early stages of the design process (e.g. need identification, problem formulation, innovation and idea generation), professional communication skills (e.g. written and oral reporting and documentation), and ethics of biomedical design and research (e.g. ethical codes and decision making, animal care and use in research and testing, authorship and intellectual property, social and environmental impact of design).

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Studio 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.   Able to identify medical needs relevant to Biomedical Engineering solutions, an understanding of realistic constraints which impact biomedical engineering design
2.   Understand ethical and professional responsibilities which impact design
3.   Understand the need for a multidisciplinary team to solve biomedical engineering design projects.
4.   Able to independently acquire knowledge from a variety of sources including biology and medicine as well as other engineering disciplines.
5.   Able to communicate effectively in written form and evaluate written reports
6.   Able to identify a career development pathway that is relevant to their personal identity and training as Biomedical Engineers. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Biomedical Engr

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BME 29000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 25600 Minimum Grade of D-


