VCS 80630 - Small Animal Surgery

Credit Hours: 2.50.  This course will teach basic surgical principles applicable across species such as suture materials and patterns and principles of hemostasis. Common surgical diseases affecting the various body systems of dogs and cats will be discussed with a focus on pre- and postoperative care. Routinely performed surgical procedures (neuter, spay, C-section) will be discussed. Orthopedic topics will include bone healing, management of musculoskeletal trauma, fracture management, and fundamentals of external and internal fracture stabilization techniques for dogs and cats. The course will conclude with discussions of select musculotendinous conditions, principles of amputation and joint and limb salvage, and an introduction to principles of physical therapy. Typically offered Fall Summer.

    2.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain correct preparation of the surgical site, draping and procedures for maintaining aseptic technique.
2.  Identify commonly used surgical instruments, suture materials, and suture patterns and explain the indications for their use.
3.  Explain the indications, procedures and complications of surgical procedures common in general practice such as ovariectomy, ovariohysterectomy, castration, cesarean-section/hysterotomy, enterotomy, gastrotomy, and cystotomy.
4.  Recognize the clinical signs associated with common surgical diseases of the upper airway, ear, gastrointestinal tract, and urinary tract and formulate appropriate diagnostic and treatment plans.
5.  Explain principles for surgical management of tumors
6.  Recognize different types of wounds and recommend appropriate steps for initial wound management.
7.  Describe the process of bone healing and explain the principles of fracture fixation to optimize bone healing.
8.  Describe fractures based on type, classification and location.
9.  Explain the diagnosis, perioperative management, and treatment options for common fractures and joint injuries involving appendicular bones and mandible.
10.  Formulate a diagnostic plan for common orthopedic diseases.
11.  Explain the etiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and medical and surgical treatment of developmental and degenerative joint diseases of dogs.
12.  Explain the etiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of developmental and acquired multicentric diseases of the long bones of dogs.
13.  Explain the etiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of more common musculotendinous conditions.
14.  Explain the indications, principles and anticipated outcomes for amputations, arthrodesis, and limb salvage procedures.
15.  Describe the basic principles, modalities, goals, and anticipated outcomes of current physical therapy and rehabilitation therapies.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


