MGMT 53900 - Analytics For Social Media Marketing

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  The objective of this course is to equip students with tools and develop marketing skills required to address current marketing problems.  The approach is to learn R software for conducting basic scraping on social media sites to understand user behavior and sentiment. In addition, Python will be used for web-scraping data from various websites and websites with dynamic content. The goal is to become familiar with such qualitative techniques as: word clouds, cluster dendrograms, sentiment analysis, and other methods. Occasional homework assignments or check points will be given to gain deeper understanding of the materials covered in class.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: Dept of Management 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn how to collect and analyze consumer behavior and sentiment from social media platforms.
2.  Gain experience in understanding online consumer search terms and related consumer trends.
3.  Learn to become a marketing manager who would monitor competitors' products and pricing actions on the online space.
4.  Be exposed to the challenges of recent online platforms where websites use dynamic content to increase user interactivities.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-MS

      Economics-ND

      Economics-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management Exec-MS

      Management Exec-ND

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MSIA

      Management-ND

      Management-PHD

      Org Behav and HR Mgmt-ND

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Economics-MA Teaching

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


