HTM 49901 - Business Development In Hospitality And Tourism

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This capstone course is one of the final courses in an HTM student's undergraduate career. This course will cover all stages in the business development process of a proposed business. By integrating the student's academic and experiential knowledge, the course's culminating project serves as a repository for the student's undergraduate learning and industry experiences. Emphasis will be on strategic planning, the design of systems, and models and problem analysis, leading to the opening of a successful business. The course concludes in the presentation of a proposed business. The course is designed to help the student transition from college to the workforce.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Integrate and apply prior knowledge areas from the HTM curriculum in developing a business.
2.  Develop and analyze the feasibility, situational, and operational aspects of a hospitality and tourism business.
3.  Select and implement an appropriate business model in development of a business plan.
4.  Describe the characteristics of a successful business and apply that knowledge to mitigate situational and operational risks.
5.  Evaluate between ethical and unethical behaviors on the parts of individuals when preparing and presenting a business development plan to potential stakeholders.
6.  Prepare and present a business development plan.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 21200 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 23100 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 32200 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  HTM 34100 Minimum Grade of C-


