EDPS 30400 - Assessment And Transition (Data-Based Decision-Making)

1.  Apply their understanding of specialized curricula to inform their programmatic and instructional decisions for individuals with exceptionalities across a variety of contexts and the continuum of placement options. (CEC 3.2)
2.  Develop, select, administer, analyze and interpret multiple measures of student learning, behavior, and the classroom environment to evaluate and support classroom and school-based systems of intervention for students with and without exceptionalities. (CEC 4.1)
3.  Develop, select, and administer multiple, formal and informal, culturally and linguistically appropriate measures and procedures that are valid and reliable, to contribute to eligibility determination for special education services. (CEC 4.2)
4.  Assess, collaboratively analyze, interpret, inform both short and long-term planning and make ongoing adjustments to instruction. (CEC 4.3)
5.  Utilize appropriate progress monitoring skills in order to develop individualized education plans (IEPs) for students.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply their understanding of specialized curricula to inform their programmatic and instructional decisions for individuals with exceptionalities across a variety of contexts and the continuum of placement options (CEC 3.2)
2.  Develop, select, administer, analyze, and interpret multiple measures of student learning, behavior, and the classroom environment to evaluate and support classroom and school-based systems of intervention for students with and without exceptionalities (CEC 4.1).
3.  Develop, select, and administer multiple, formal and informal, culturally and linguistically appropriate measures and procedures that are valid and reliable, to contribute to eligibility determination for special education services CEC 4.2).
4.  Assess, collaboratively analyze, interpret, and communicate students' progress toward measurable outcomes, using technology as appropriate, to inform both short and long-term planning, and make ongoing adjustments to instruction (CEC 4.3).
5.  Utilize appropriate progress monitoring skills in order to develop individualized education plans (IEPs) for students.



