EDCI 55800 - Integrated Science, Technology, Engineering And Mathematics (STEM) Education Methods-Secondary

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Focuses on operationalizing the theoretical pedagogical approaches to integrated Science, Engineering, Mathematics and Agriculture (STEM) education. Collaboratively and cooperatively investigate, plan and deliver integrated learning experiences appropriate for secondary education. Course content will blend philosophical considerations with practical application. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Engage in instructional conversations, collaboratively share instructional resources, and develop a sense of community for integrated STEM learning and teaching.
2.  Contextualize STEM learning in authentic contexts.
3.  Explain and apply socially and culturally relevant pedagogy in the context of STEM learning.
4.  Discuss levels and types of integrated STEM content, pedagogy, and ways of knowing.
5.  Develop and disseminate integrated STEM learning experiences.
6.  Implement, assess and reflect on integrated STEM learning experiences in public school classrooms.
7.  Articulate a framework explaining integrated STEM education.
8.  Adapt existing singular discipline curriculum resources to leverage connections across disciplines to facilitate integration.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-EDCI 55800 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
EDCI
53900


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



