MGMT 53000 - Financial Statement Analysis

Credit Hours: 3.00. The course is designed to help students: (a) understand the content of corporate financial reports and analyze the information therein, (b) use the information for evaluating the financial health, operating performance, and growth prospects of corporation-type companies, and (c) learn the various models available and estimate the value of such a company using those models and the information abstracted from the financial reports. The topics to be covered include the corporate financial statements and their relationships, ratio analysis for profitability and risk evaluation, assets/liabilities/owners' equality analysis, intercompany investments, forecasting financial statements, and company valuation models. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Develop analytical and quantitative skills to analyze and formulate business decisions: Students will be able to demonstrate their ability to incorporate financial statement information into commonly used firm valuation models that are widely used in business decision-making. 
2.  Develop current business technologies and use common business technology and software in essential tasks: Students will be able to demonstrate their ability to use spreadsheet in developing valuation models and will demonstrate their ability to retrieve financial information from Internet and evaluate its quality. 
3. Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills through class assignments and the writing and presentation of a group project. 
4. Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environment. Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present a group project. 
5. Develop awareness and understanding of global issues relating to financial reporting, tax accounting and business decisions. Students will demonstrate their ability to value multinational corporations and interpret their financial statements through homework assignments, examinations and a group project. 
6. Achieve depth of understanding applications of financial reporting. Students will demonstrate their ability to understand and interpret financial statements and accounting choices through homework assignments, examinations and a group project. 




Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 53000 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
35000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



