HK 53500 - Athletic Training Interventions

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide the student with the foundational theory and techniques related to injury and illness intervention. Included are topics addressing tissue healing, theories of pain and pain control, concepts of kinetic chain stability and mobility, as well as principles related to the use of therapeutic medications. Students will discover how to plan and implement a comprehensive reconditioning program for injuries and conditions sustained by physically active individuals. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Distinguish the role and types of clinical outcome assessments/measures utilized in clinical practice to determine patient progress.
2.  Compare the phases of tissue healing and its implications on intervention design, implementation and progress.
3.  Compare common pain control theories and evaluate methods to control pain.
4.  Evaluate common indications and contraindications to common therapeutic interventions.
5.  Compose a comprehensive rehabilitation program including: determination of therapeutic goals and objectives, selection of therapeutic modalities and exercise, methods of evaluation and documenting rehabilitation progress, and development of criteria for progression and return to activity.
6.  Demonstrate and instruct therapeutic exercises and implement a rehabilitation plan.
7.  Analyze local, state, and federal standards/law for the safe application of therapeutic modalities, rehabilitation equipment and medications.
8.  Generalize concepts related to the administration of therapeutic administration of medication.
9.  Use peer reviewed resources to examine a common condition presented to a rehabilitation professional and construct an evidence based injury rehabilitation protocol for return to competitive activities.
10.  Perform a professional oral presentation using professional communication skills.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 50000 Minimum Grade of B-


