MGMT 53200 - Forensic Accounting And Fraud Examination

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to help students apply their accounting, auditing, information systems and communication skills to detect financial fraud and unauthorized reporting acts to prepare and present a fraud case for criminal proceedings or civil litigation. These skills are highly valued in the rapidly growing field of forensic accounting. Upon completing this course, students will understand the role of forensic accountants in examining financial records for fraud and detecting insurance fraud; in providing litigation support; and in capturing digital evidence. This course will also review material related to the Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) exam. Throughout the course, students will have opportunities to improve their written and oral communication skills, particularly as they relate to communication in the legal settings associated with investigating accounting. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Achieve depth of understanding and application of essential content in business functional areas: Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of business functional areas through homework assignments, examinations and team projects that require analysis or development of fraud detection plans and litigation support. 
2. Develop current business technologies and use common business technology and software in essential tasks: Students will be able to demonstrate their understanding of how people in organizations use common technology and software to commit fraud through homework assignments, examinations and team projects. They will also be able to demonstrate their ability to use software to detect fraud and other irregular transactions.
3. Become familiar with the ethical issues that individuals face in organizations: Ethical behavior is a key factor in preventing fraud. Students will be able to demonstrate their ability to identify signs of unethical behavior and how it manifests itself in financial fraud through homework assignments, examinations and team projects. 
4. Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills through class participation and the writing and presentation of team projects. 
5. Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environment: Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present team projects. 
6. Achieve depth of understanding and applications of financial reporting. Students will demonstrate their understanding of accounting systems through homework assignments, examinations and team projects that require a deep understanding of accounting rules and procedures and the technology that individuals use to keep financial records. 




Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 53200 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
35000


May not be taken concurrently.
)



