HDFS 34300 - Assessment And Case Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is an introduction to case management as a service delivery approach for helping individuals and families in need.   This course provides opportunities to practice basic helping and case management skills such as building rapport, assessing client needs, developing intervention plans, professional ethics, and professional writing.   Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the case management approach to addressing the health and human service needs of children, adults, and families.
2.  Differentiate among the various phases and task responsibilities of case management.
3.  Analyze how individual differences in human development and motivation for change influence case management work.
4.  Apply basic assessment and case management skills in practice interviews with individuals and families.
5.  Demonstrate professional documentation and writing ability through the preparation of assessment reports, case notes, and intervention plans.
6.  Demonstrate professional helping capacities such as ethical behavior and reflective practice.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Developmental & Family Science

      Family & Consumer Science Educ

      Human Services


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HDFS 20100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 20100 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 21000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CDFS 21000 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  HDFS 33100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CDFS 33100 Minimum Grade of C-) and Undergraduate level  HDFS 33100 Minimum Grade of C-


