BIOL 49700 - Biology Honors Seminar

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Required of all students participating in honors research. Discussions and presentations of research, including seminars by those students who are completing their honors research thesis.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Honors, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
4.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
6.  Understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding.
7.  Become familiar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism.
8.  Understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes.
9.  Understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability.
10.  Understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels.
11.  Understand the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions.
12.  Understand the principles governing the development of multi-cellular animals and plants.
13.  Understand ways in which organisms interact ecologically with each other and their environment.
14.  Understand how evolutionary forces influence organisms to produce adaptations.
15.  Acquire knowledge of the ways in which animals communicate with each other.
16.  Exhibit proficiency in population and community ecology, animal behavior, and evolutionary mechanisms.
17.  Be familiar with taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among organisms.
18.  Extend basic ecological principles to species and ecosystem conservation.
19.  Learn to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
20.  Use and understand the scientific method, including how to generate hypotheses and predictions, develop an experimental design, collect data, statistically analyze data, and interpret results.
21.  Demonstrate an understanding of concepts and theories of genetics.
22.  Demonstrate an understanding of laboratory skills used in genetics.
23.  Exhibit proficiency in the physiology, biochemistry, and genetics of bacteria including diversity, metabolism, and gene expression regulation as well as key metabolic control mechanisms.
24.  Become familiar with taxonomic, ecological, and phylogenetic relationships among microorganisms including biogeochemical nutrient cycling, microbial diversity, and the biotechnological application of microbes to address environmental and energy problems.
25.  Able to demonstrate knowledge of how evolutionary forces impact and shape microbial function and activity.
26.  Able to demonstrate technical competency in basic microbiological laboratory techniques and common molecular biology techniques that exploit the use of microbes.
27.  Able to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
28.  Able to demonstrate an understanding of the scientific method including hypothesis generation and testing, data collection, analysis, and interpretation.
29.  Demonstrate an understanding of prokaryotic cell structure and the major physiological processes of microorganisms that are critical for metabolism, function, and utilization of ecological niches.
30.  Demonstrate an in depth knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level.
31.  Demonstrate the ability to measure dynamic changes in living organisms, tissues, and cells.




Corequisites: 

BIOL 49900


