EDCI 59700 - Pedagogy II: Advanced Methods For Secondary Education Transition To Teaching Program

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This sixteen-week course is the capstone methods course for the online Transition to Teaching (TTT) program. Students who enroll in this course will be seeking teaching licensure in one of the secondary program areas available at Purdue University. Therefore, instruction in the course will revolve around general educational concerns and effective teaching approaches that are applicable to all content area instruction at the middle and high school levels. This course extends engagement with the pedagogical principles of practices introduced in Transition to Teaching: Pedagogy I. The course also includes a fifty-hour field experience component. Admission to Transition to Teaching program required. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Plan learner-centered instruction and classroom management techniques that reflect cultural competency; are responsive to the characteristics, strengths, experiences, and needs of each student; and promote all student's development and learning.
2.  Develop effective lesson and unit plans in short- and long-range instructional planning.
3.  Describe project-based learning experiences that guide students to analyze the complexities of an issue and use creative thinking and innovative approaches to solve problems.
4.  Identify skills and strategies for creating a safe, healthy, supportive, and inclusive learning environment that encourages all student's engagement, collaboration, and sense of belonging.
5.  Identify skills and strategies for establishing a culture of learning that emphasizes high expectations for all students, promotes self-motivation, and encourages students' sense of responsibility for their own learning.
6.  Use a variety of assessment results and data sources to evaluate and monitor student learning and progress; establish learning goals; and plan, differentiate, and continuously adjust instruction for individuals, groups, and classes.
7.  Compare characteristics and benefits of virtual learning environments, online environments, face-to-face environments, and hybrid environments, and the strategies to work effectively in different types of environments to ensure student learning and growth.
8.  Evaluate key areas for growth and goal setting after reviewing procedures for teacher evaluations and administrator expectations for professional teachers.
9.  Reflect on field experience lesson planning, instructional delivery and student interactions.
10. Anticipate the requirements for edTPA and teacher certification.



