EDPS 52700 - Literacy Curricula For Learners With Exceptionalities

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will explore research-supported general and specialized literacy curricula to prepare candidates to design and/or adapt instructional lessons and materials to meet the needs of students with exceptionalities.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply principles of UDL when selecting, adapting, and modifying assessments to accommodate student(s) with exceptionalities, including students who are nonverbal or English Learners.
2.  Evaluate research-supported instructional strategies and materials appropriate to the strengths, needs, and characteristics of students with exceptionalities within the areas of literacy development, reading fluency, concepts of vocabulary and academic language, and comprehension and analysis of informational, persuasive, and literary text.
3.  Apply strategies to work effectively with general education teachers and support staff to provide services that incorporate differentiated instruction, transition assessments, and assistive technology that facilitate student learning and the students' learning environment.
4.  Create lesson plans, based on national, state, and/or local curricula standards and the scope and sequence of grade-level/chronologically-aged appropriate general education content-area curriculum that incorporate UDL, research-supported instructional strategies and materials, and provide meaning-filled learning opportunities.
5.  Design lesson plans that incorporate UDL and apply research-supported strategies to provide specially designed reading and writing instruction, including strategies for providing explicit and systematic instruction and strategies for using technology to support various aspects of the reading and writing process and include instructional and assistive strategies to teach students to monitor errors in reading comprehension and writing.
6.  Evaluate instruction, monitor progress, and make instructional changes to support student learning.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Special Education


