NUR 57600 - Advanced Practice Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing Across The Lifespan II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The practice of Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) is further expanded to include identification and management of the complex patient across the life span. Explore how co-morbid health conditions impact psychiatric disorders and treatment response. Differentiate psychiatric diagnoses, personality disorders, social, family and cultural influences, developmental disorders and how these factors impact treatment. Apply a variety of approaches including inter-and intra-professional resources, and psychopharmacological interventions to the management of complex patients. Legal and ethical implications of care are discussed. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply epidemiology, physiology, developmental, informatics, technology, leadership systems, quality improvement, family, community, and health promotion theories and research in the care of adolescents, adults and older adults with complex psychiatric disorders, and medical comorbidities.
2.  Communicate orally and in writing culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, treatment goals and evidence-based interventions for complex primary psychiatric disorders, and psychiatric and medical comorbidities.
3.  Synthesize clinical and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate evidence-based care for clients with psychiatric disorders and their families.
4.  Analyze, apply and evaluate primary and collateral information to form a comprehensive psychiatric assessment and evidence-based treatment plan for children, adolescent, adult, and older adult patients.
5.  Implement appropriate diagnostic modalities in assessing the psychiatric care needs of children, adolescent, adults and older adult clients.
6.  Apply legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of psychiatric disorders in children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
7.  Implement theory and evidence-based interventions to treat children, adolescents, adults, and older adults with psychiatric disorders, developmental disorders, and psychosocial/environmental issues.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-CPOSTM


