ANTH 32000 - Ancient States And Empires

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Why did some small-scale societies develop into complex chiefdoms, states, and empires while others did not? How did ancient societies adapt in the face of social conflict and environmental challenges? What lessons can we learn from resilience or collapse of states in the ancient past? This course compares the political, social, ecological, contexts of the rise and fall of early complex societies, from densely populated hunter-gatherers in North America to the world's major ancient civilizations in Mesoamerica, the Andes, Nile Valley, Mesopotamia, Indus Valley, and China. We will also explore how societies responded to 'grand challenges' in antiquity such as climate variability, food insecurity, global-intercultural interaction, and what modern lessons we might derive from their successes and failures.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Anthropology 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate evidence for the development of complexity in places like North America, Mesopotamia, Egypt, Asia, Mesoamerica, and South America, and understand theoretical models archaeologists have used to frame them.
2.  Discuss similarities and differences in social, political, and economic organization among complex societies, and assess arguments about the nature of culture change, power and the state, and relations between economy, environment and society through detail case studies.
3.  Evaluate arguments about the relative historical specificity or comparability of ancient complex societies, and therefore the potential to draw inferences from them about the fate of our own society through discussion and written assignments.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ANTH 10000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ANTH A1040 Minimum Grade of D-) or Undergraduate level  ANTH 20100 Minimum Grade of D-


