VCS 80210 - Veterinary Skills And Competencies III

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to allow students to develop competence in communication, husbandry, diagnostic, and therapeutic skills of veterinary medicine and surgery. In addition, instruction will be delivered in the areas of veterinary business, professionalism and health professional wellness. Instruction will be provided by online modules, hands-on laboratories using models, cadavers, and live animals, as well as, self-paced training in the veterinary skills lab. Students will further develop these skills through the care of teaching animals. Students will also complete observational assignments and treatment duties in the Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate safe and appropriate administration of medications via SQ and IM to dogs, cats, food animals, and horses (using cadavers).
2.  Demonstrate safe and appropriate jugular and peripheral venipuncture of dogs, cats, food animals, and horses (using models).
3.  Demonstrate ability to collect and submit venous samples for hematology and chemistry.
4.  Demonstrate ability to collect and submit voided urine samples.
5.  Demonstrate ability to perform a physical examination including abdominal assessment and rectal palpation of a dog, cat, food animal, and horse.
6.  Demonstrate ability to perform a cardiologic examination in dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
7.  Demonstrate ability to perform a neurologic examination in dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
8.  Demonstrate four techniques for oxygen administration.
9. Demonstrate ability to correctly and aseptically place an IV catheter (in models) of large and small animals.
10.  Demonstrate intubation of dogs and cats.
11.  Demonstrate understanding of regulatory paperwork, the completion of the USDA accreditation modules, and the ability to perform tuberculosis and brucellosis testing.
12.  Demonstrate ability to measure systemic blood pressure using both Doppler and oscillometric techniques.
13.  Demonstrate ability to perform a bone marrow aspirate and bone marrow core biopsy.
14.  Demonstrate ability to correctly set up and position for thoracic radiographs.
15.  Demonstrate ability to complete one- and two-hand ties, instrument ties and square knots.
16.  Demonstrate ability to prepare Diff-quick staining on cytologic samples.
17.  Demonstrate understanding of the principles of OR conduct and correct gowning and gloving protocols.
18.  Demonstrate ability to measure SpO2 via pulse oximetry.
19.  Demonstrate ability to perform a diagnostic and 10 lead EKG.
20.  Demonstrate appropriate telephone communication and etiquette with owners and fellow veterinarians.
21.  Demonstrate understanding communication strategies to improve treatment compliance.
22.  Demonstrate understanding of their personal credit score-both its calculation and impact.
23.  Demonstrate knowledge of Veterinary Teaching Hospital protocols for patients in ICU and wards.
24.  Demonstrate understanding of the use of the Omincell.
25.  Demonstrate ability to complete patient rounds with ICU technicians.
26.  Demonstrate knowledge of Veterinary Teaching Hospital and Animal Disease Diagnostic Lab forms and protocols for sample submission.
27.  Demonstrate ability to perform and interpret SNAP tests.
28.  Demonstrate ability to complete drug calculations, write prescriptions for medications, and write a veterinary feed directive.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


