IPPH 45100 - Industrial Practical Training

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Course allows students to gain practice-related employment experience in industrial pharmacy.  Students receive credit for practical experience in the session when they participate in the practical experience and complete the course paper requirement.  Pre-approval of enrollment through ISS is required prior to employment experience.  Permission of instructor required.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Industrial and Physical Pharm 


Course Attributes: Practicum, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Ensure pharmaceutical science students receive early exposure to the most common career paths taken by today's graduates and gain a first-hand perspective of industry responsibilities and activities in their roles.  This contributes to a foundation for gaining appreciation of the strategies for continually evolving requirements and skills in industry.
2.  Provides pharmaceutical science students with opportunities to have early in their program observation of scientists providing services, particularly those that address Pharmaceutical Science Outcome Ability Goals.  These include Conceptual Competence, Scientific Comprehension, Mathematical Competence, Integrative Competence, Critical Thinking and Decision Making Abilities, Communication Skills and Abilities, Responsible Use of Professional Values and Ethical Principles, Social Awareness and Social Responsibility, Professional Abilities and Habits, and Group Interaction and Citizenship.  See the "Student Handbook" for specific descriptions of the components of these outcome abilities.
3.  Provide pharmaceutical science students with early industry exposure that illustrates the reasons they need in-depth learning of the basic and applied sciences and a commitment to lifelong learning for professional effectiveness.
4.  Provide pharmaceutical science students with experiences and learning in applications that are essential to evolving professional responsibilities in an industrial setting.
5.  Contribute to pharmaceutical science student development as well as providing the vision and motivation to become a positive scientific influence or change agent.
6.  Broaden students' perspectives on career pathways and foster initiatives to enhance career planning.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      College of Pharmacy

      Doctor of Pharmacy


