ASEC 48000 - Agricultural Communication Capstone Seminar

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Prepares graduating students for entry to the workplace, assesses and enhances their communication knowledge and skills, and provides project experiences that will demonstrate their ability to communicate scientific and technical information through a variety of media.  Projects will include student presentations and magazine style articles on issues of concern to agricultural and general audiences; and a final project that requires students to conceive and create a web site that uses converging media to communicate effectively a topical issue.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Display mastery in the art of communicating science (agriculture, health, or environmental science) in explanatory writing form for non-technical audiences. 
2. Conduct interviews, organize and produce professional-quality writing products.
3. Quickly assemble content, seek approvals and make revisions under tight deadlines.
4. Gather data and analyze audiences.
5. Work with a team to identify effective communication goals; determine communications resources and coordinate those for strategic outcomes.
6. Develop creative products for professional portfolios to showcase communication expertise and assist in the job search.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  COM 25200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  COM 25500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  COMM J2200 Minimum Grade of D-)


