FNR 59000 - Introduction To Teaching In Natural Resources

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This applied course introduces topics related to teaching science courses to facilitate and support the success of teaching assistants in Forestry and Natural Resources.  Students will read and review assigned reading and then participate in a discussion at a weekly class meeting.  Students also will have an opportunity to practice and apply concepts through development and presentation of a lesson plan. Permission of instructor required.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn evaluated and applied methods to effectively engage and support diverse student populations in formal and informal classrooms.
2.  Develop skills to communicate effectively while teaching natural resource topics.
3.  Connect ethical teaching practices to teaching actions.
4.  Develop a personal teaching philosophy and an associated formal statement.
5.  Create materials for a 50 min lecture period lesson plan on a topic of their choice that incorporates concepts from the semester.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Computational Life Science

      Fisheries & Aquatic Sciences

      Forest Biology

      Forest Msrmmt & Assess/GIS

      Genetics

      Int Ecog Sci & Eng

      Interdeptl Nutrition Prog

      Integrative Plant Sci-PULSe

      Mol Evolut Genetics-PULSe

      Mol Signl Cancer Bio-PULSe

      Meat Science & Food Safety

      Natural Resrce Social Sci

      Peace Corp Msts Intl-IESE

      Plant Biology-PULSe

      Wood Prod & Wood Prod Manu

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


