PHRM 83400 - Pharmaceutical Calculations

Credit Hours: 1.00. Mastery of pharmaceutical calculation skills is vital and PHRM 83400 prepares students to apply calculation problem solving skills to clinical practice. PHRM 83400 prepares students to perform pharmaceutical calculations necessary for prescription/drug order preparation, compounding dosage forms, and medication dosage calculations based on patient specific factors. Pharmacists must perform error-free pharmaceutical calculations. Correct calculations contribute as much to pharmaceutical care as the newest methods/guidelines for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. The development of problem solving skills with pharmaceutical calculations is an important component of this course. In addition, practice and repetition of problems is necessary to develop confidence as well as accuracy. Appropriate documentation of work/set up and numerical answers (including units) is required. Approaches to minimize errors and maximize accuracy with pharmaceutical calculations are emphasized. Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the role of pharmaceutical calculations in the provision of pharmaceutical care.
2.  Perform accurate/error-free pharmaceutical calculations in an organized, clear, and appropriately documented format.
3.  Express numerical answers in a clear manner which includes units and appropriate use of zeros with decimal points.
4.  Interpret abbreviations and professional nomenclature in prescriptions/drug orders.
5.  List the equivalents/conversion factors for the systems of measurement used in pharmacy (i.e., metric, apothecary, avoirdupois, and household). 
6.  Convert from one unit to another between and within the various systems of measurement used in pharmacy.
7.  Calculate quantities of ingredients necessary to reduce or enlarge a pharmaceutical formula. 
8.  Define and appropriately utilize specific gravity in pharmaceutical calculations. 
9.  Define and perform pharmaceutical calculations using various expressions of concentration [i.e., percentage (i.e., W/V, V/V, W/W), ratio strength, milligram percent, parts per million] used in pharmacy.
10. Calculate a patient's body surface area (BSA) utilizing a nomogram and/or BSA formula and apply in dose determinations.
11. Calculate ideal body weight (IBW) and estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) rates and apply in dose determinations.
12. Calculate body mass index (BMI) from a standard formula.
13. Calculate appropriate medication dosages based on patient specific factors.
14. Calculate admixed intravenous (IV) solution quantities/volumes.
15. Calculate intravenous (IV) solution flow rate.
16. Perform the calculations necessary to prepare isotonic compounded solutions.
17. Perform calculations for the preparation and use of stock solutions.
18. Perform calculations for altering product strength by dilution or concentration.
19. Solve problems associated with compounding in contemporary practice.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP


