VCS 81500 - Ophthalmology

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course is an introduction to veterinary comparative ophthalmology.  It covers the anatomy of the eye, diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of the ocular diseases commonly seen in companion and food animal species: canine, feline, equine, avian, bovine, caprine, ovine, porcine, lagomorphs. Covers pharmacology as it relates to medications used to treat ocular disease. Typically offered Spring Summer.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Acquire basics of normal ocular anatomy and physiology, common ophthalmic diseases in all species for general practice, including their pathophysiology clinical presentations, therapies, and prognoses. 
2.  Become familiar with ophthalmic terminology. 
3.  Gain a basic knowledge of the diseases of the anterior and posterior segments of the eye, the eyelids, and the globe.
4.  Use correct ophthalmic terminology to describe ocular conditions.
5.  Recognize common ocular conditions involving the adnexa, globe, and orbit. 
6.  Create a list of differential diagnoses for the conditions covered in class. 
7.  Determine appropriate diagnostic plans for the conditions covered in class. 
8.  Determine appropriate treatment plans and give an accurate prognosis for the conditions covered in class. 
9.  Learn the ocular medications listed on the ocular pharmacology sheet handed out in class and will know indications, contra-indications, and frequency for all medications.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


Prerequisites: 

 (Professional level  BMS 80100 Minimum Grade of D- or Professional level  BMS 50100 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Professional level  BMS 80200 Minimum Grade of D- or Professional level  BMS 50200 Minimum Grade of D-)


