MGMT 44430 - Staffing: Talent Acquisition

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on the effective management of the flow of talent into and through organizations. It covers workforce planning, recruiting and selection, career transitions and other workforce movement. It is designed to teach students the skills to recruit and select the best talent to help drive organizational strategy. It will also prepare students to evaluate methods for job analysis and selection. Students will learn how to design and ask interview questions that are behaviorally anchored and focused on organization-person fit and person-job fit, both of which are important for successful adaptation and effective performance on the job. Students will also learn how to design a process and framework for final individual or group selection. Lastly, they will learn several strategies to successfully orient and onboard new employees. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe workforce planning implementation issues and the importance of continuous refinement of the plan.
2.  Define talent acquisition and differentiate between recruiting and selection processes.
3.  Understand the various talent acquisition organization models.
4.  Use tangible and intangible data to build a business case for effective talent acquisition.
5.  Articulate the steps in a common talent analysis and translate the analysis into selection criteria and methods.
6.  Conduct a job-fit and organization-fit analysis and translate the analysis into selection criteria and methods.
7.  Develop behavior-based and situation-based interview questions derived from job analysis and conduct a professional interview.
8.  Design a process for final candidate evaluation.
9.  Highlight various strategies to orient and onboard new acquired talent.
10.  Articulate an employer's legal responsibilities in the talent acquisition process.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Human Resource Development

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Operations Management

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  OBHR 33000 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  MGMT 44428 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 44301 Minimum Grade of C-)


