MGMT 55400 - Managing Global Organizational Behavior & Human Resources

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  This course focuses on the opportunities and challenges of managing a global multicultural workforce and implementing global organizational people strategies. The overall goal of this class is to help you become a more effective professional and leader in a global world on and off the job by providing information, tools and multicultural opportunities to increase conceptual and practical understanding of how national cultures shape employment settings and its implications for your own behavior as a global business professional and leader who implements human capital and organizational strategies, policies, and practices in a cross-national context. This course will also increase knowledge of and ability to implement current global human capital, international HRM, and organizational strategies for MNES and domestically. To achieve these goals, student engagement in class sessions, and willingness to share perspectives and opinions, and application of course readings and materials, are critical to the success of this course. A range of participative learning methods are used to facilitate an active classroom environment, including learning log journaling, case analysis, experiential exercises, small group projects, break out discussions, company guest speakers, and self-assessments. The role of the instructor in this course is not always to provide "the" answer, but to create an environment where you can collectively explore, examine and experiment with students' own ideas and share ideas and perspectives on working and managing global firms. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use cross-cultural leadership and organizational abilities to understand on how cultural differences shape workplace interactions so you can better implement organizational and people strategies to achieve business goals in a global environment.
2.  Identify and avoid cultural mishaps and identify how your own national cultural values and assumptions about managing people and organizations shape your effectiveness in managing people, diversity, and systems in a global or cross-cultural firm.
3.  Understand the challenges of adapting HRM policies and organizational people strategies when adapting HR and employment systems as organizations "go global" and develop a global workforce.
4.  Understand the pros and cons of different multicultural strategies (cultural minimization, accommodation, cultural integration) for successfully implementing human capital strategies and HR practices in multicultural contexts.
5.  Develop the core competencies needed by business leaders to work in multicultural teams contexts, including cultural intelligence, the ability to work in cross-cultural teams, develop clear and concise non country biased written communication, the ability to give effective presentations virtually and face to face, and the ability to engage in strategic cross-cultural thinking to implement global HR.
6.  Understand  and be able to apply core concepts in global HR/OB from 1)Global HR planning and organizational design; 2) Merger and Acquisition with a focus on linkages to successful people and organizational strategies; 3) Global talent management; 4) Development, reward, and performance management of global leaders; 5) Managing Global Teams, diversity, and cross-cultural communication; and 6) Implementing global change and improving organizational effectiveness.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Management

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


