AD 59100 - Practicum For Art And Design Teaching Assistants

Credit Hours: 0.00.  Seminar to train new Art and Design teaching assistants in the content, policies, and format of the courses they support in various roles, such as: primary instructor, primary studio technician, primary grader for the course, or primary student teacher supervisor. Topics include problem/project presentation, critique techniques, grading, and knowledge of materials and processes of the discipline. Subsequent semesters focus on improving and refining teaching and operational skills. Open only to Art and Design teaching assistants each semester they teach. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Patti & Rusty Rueff Schl DAP 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize the basic objective elements and principles one must know to be acquainted with the discipline in which they are engaging or solving problems in it.
2.  Demonstrate a conceptual understanding of the interrelationships among the basic objective elements within a larger structure that enables them to function together related to course goals and instructional objectives.
3.  Carry out or use a procedure in a given situation: how to do something, use a method of inquiry and criteria for using skills, techniques, and methods, applicable to their discipline.
4.  Differentiate: discriminate, distinguishing, focusing, and selecting successful instructional outcomes.
5.  Develop an awareness and responsibility for analyzing and assessing their own professional behaviors and activities and accepting continuing responsibility for their own professional development.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Art-Visual & Performing Arts

      Design-Visual & Perform Arts

      Theatre-Visual & Perform Arts

      Visual and Performing Arts


