PHIL 11500 - Philosophy: What Are You Going To Do With That?

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course is designed for all philosophy majors, but is open to anyone interested in minor/majoring in philosophy. The format for this course is based on three components: reading and reflection, along with in-class discussion; in-class guest speakers who will address various topics in philosophy as a field, and/or professionalization (both within and outside of academia); and short written exercises, often done in class, which are designed to build up to the final project. Most classes will begin with a guest speaker giving a brief introduction to a particular area or topic within philosophy. Students will have a short reading assigned for each class period that will be discussed with the instructor following the guest's presentation. The course readings will be, as best as possible, related to the area/topic introduced by the guest. Certain classes will be dedicated solely to career/professionalization interests and will feature guests with expertise in these areas. The professionalization experts will help students develop their career goals, identify possible internships and scholarships to pursue while a student at Purdue, and develop career goals for after they have graduated. Finally, certain classes will be dedicated to writing and the development of the final project, which will include a proposed 8-semester path of study, a polished resume/CV, and career/professionalization goals. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Devise academic and professional goals by preparing professionalization documents including a CV/resume.
2.  Construct an eight semester plan of study toward completion of a degree in philosophy by listing courses of interest and forecasting future course load.
3.  Identify argument structures in philosophical writing by reading assigned texts.
4.  Assess and critique issues in various areas of philosophy by participating in classroom and group discussions.



