PHIL 56200 - Reading To Argue

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Repeatable twice for a maximum of 9 credits. Closely and critically reading philosophical arguments is the first step to composing your own arguments in philosophy. In addition, developing these skills will help you to orally discuss philosophical ideas, both in classroom discussions as well as when giving presentations. This class aims to prepare students for these tasks by developing the skills of close and critical reading in philosophical discourse. All the while, students will continue improving their reading, writing, and speaking skills in the English language through specifically designed language learning components for non-native English speakers. Students are also supported in their regular philosophy courses. This course is linked to one or more 500+ level philosophy seminars that students in this course are enrolled in. Reading materials, writing activities, and projects for the course are designed to complement tasks and projects required in the linked philosophy seminar. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times for a maximum of 9 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply core concepts of informal argument analysis to philosophical arguments.
2.  Construct effective informal argument reports.
3.  Identify genre and rhetorical devices of philosophical arguments to aid reading comprehension and critical reading.
4.  Critically evaluate philosophical arguments.
5.  Explain and discuss philosophical arguments orally in class and group conversations.
6.  Improve speaking skills, including circumlocution, pronunciation, attention to body language, affect, and more, in classroom discussions and formal presentations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  PHIL 57200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


