MGMT 50900 - International Accounting

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Provides insight into and an understanding of the many accounting problems and issues faced in an international business environment. The material is approached from two compatible and overlapping perspectives: the perspective of accounting or financial management in a U.S. multinational corporation and the perspective of an investor interested in understanding the international business environment. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn about the development of international accounting movements and implications in a globalized financial market.
2.  Develop the ability to read and interpret the financial statements of companies that are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
3.  Emphasize the importance of professional judgment in international accounting when assessing different accounting treatments for the same event.
4.  Learn to cope with differences in financial measurement, recognition and reporting practices when performing international financial statement analyses.
5.  Enhance the students' communication and presentation skills.
6.  Contribute to the requisite background required for professional examinations such as CPA and to become prepared for a long-range successful accounting, auditing and/or managerial career.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-CPOSTB

      Economics-MA Teaching

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-PHD

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MS

      Management-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Economics-CPOSTB

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 50900 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
35000


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



