PHRM 86500 - Integrated Pharmacotherapy V

Credit Hours: 6.00.  This course provides an integrated approach to the physiology, pathophysiology, medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and pharmacotherapeutics of infectious diseases.  It covers a vast array of microbiological pathogens, including bacteria, fungi, viruses, mycobacteria, parasites, protozoa and malaria.  Typically offered Spring.

    6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop competence in basic anatomy/physiology, pathophysiology, diagnostic methods and decision making, principles of pharmacology, relationship between chemical structure and biological activity, delivery of drugs from various dosage forms, pharmacotherapy, drug interactions, and treatment guidelines.
2.  Develop competence in basic principles of drug design and the chemical and biochemical mechanisms of drug action, basic principles that affect drug release from dosage form, drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicology and the impact of those properties on clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and the relevance of molecular biology, biochemistry, immunology, and pharmacogenomics and apply key principles to disease states and therapeutics. 
3.  Perform error-free mathematical calculations with regard to drug dosing and pharmacokinetics.
4.  Provide patient-centered pharmaceutical care.
5.  Promote health improvement and disease prevention.
6.  Critically evaluate patient data, literature sources, and drug products.
7.  Provide specific, sound, cost-effective, evidence-based drug and healthcare recommendations.
8.  Design, implement, and evaluate patient specific pharmacotherapeutic regimens.
9.  Select the proper drug, dose, and dosage form for a specific patient.
10. Design strategies to monitor patients' drug regimens for therapeutic and toxic effects of medications.
11.  Design strategies to avoid or manage drug interaction and adverse drug events.
12.  Identify and implement strategies to encourage patient adherence to therapeutic interventions.
13.  Synthesize information in order to draw logical conclusions.
14.  Provide evidence-based support for arguments, recommendations, and solutions.
15.  Demonstrate the ability to make sound decisions given complex scenarios in a time-constrained environment.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 86400 Minimum Grade of C- and Professional level  PHRM 86600 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 86800 Minimum Grade of D-


