CE 51401 - Building Controls

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to provide students with the knowledge of fundamentals, design, and analysis for building control systems. It primarily consists of three parts. The first part covers basic concepts, terminology, procedures and computations of control systems including block diagrams & transfer functions, open-loop & closed-loop control, control system modeling, time response, root locus techniques, design via root locus, and digital control systems. The second part focuses on issues surrounding the building controls: interfacing components such as sensors and actuators, problems encountered, and state-of-the-art solutions for building energy efficiency and thermal comfort. The third part aims to develop students' ability to convert control system concepts into real building control systems. The course provides a hands-on opportunity for students to complete three projects associated with the three primary components during the semester: indoor environmental quality assessment, building HVAC system commissioning and its control analysis, and new control algorithm development for building energy efficiency, occupant health, and individual productivity.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate basic HVAC processes and explain the function, layout, and operation of commercial HVAC systems. 
2.  Analyze the function, operating characteristics, and appropriate applications of basic control loops and control modes as found in direct digital, analog electronic, electronic and pneumatic commercial control systems. 
3.  Understand and program a sequence of control, lay out a control system logic diagram and program it into a DDC controller. 
4.  Understand the function of network devices and network protocols such as a bridge, router, gateway, hub, firewall, Ethernet, TCP/IP, BacNet, and Lon Talk. 
5.  Use general-purpose and specific building automation software to monitor and control a building HVAC system. 
6.  Numerically model a building to define the key control parameters for thermal comfort. 
7.  Develop and program alternative control algorithms for building HVAC systems in order to enable sustainable buildings.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      Graduate School

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Graduate

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-CE 51401 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
CE
41300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
CE
41400


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



