MGMT 43901 - Real Estate Investment & Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course will cover two main topics: real estate development and real state investment. For real estate development, we will discuss the process of the real estate development process, including the basics of the idea conception, feasibility, planning, financing, market analysis, contract negotiation, risk management, marketing, and asset management. For real estate investment, we will discuss the process and techniques of analyzing real property investment, and the effects of market conditions, government policies, and other factors on real estate investment.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the nature of real estate markets and how value is determined.
2.  Understand the process of developing real estate properties.
3.  Understand the basic methods for evaluating financial and other risks associated with a real estate development project.
4.  Understand and utilize the underlying theory in the analysis of income-producing real estate as an investment medium.
5.  Use the net present value and internal rate of return and traditional measures of investment analysis of a real estate investment.
6.  Understand the basic principles in structuring real estate investments.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Bus Analytics & Info Mgmt

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Integrated Business & Engr

      Marketing

      Pre Economics

      Pre-Finance

      Pre Mgmt/General Management

      Pre Mgmt/Accounting

      Pre-Marketing

      Pre-Supply Chain Info/Analytic

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Supply Chain & Operations Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MGMT 37000 Minimum Grade of C-


