ASEC 55100 - International Engagement And Development Strategies

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An overview of cross-disciplinary, cultural, theoretical frameworks, communication tools, and assessment methods applied to international agricultural development and engagement. Lectures, panel discussions, and case studies on appropriate methods of development and engagement, international project planning, intercultural effectiveness, principles of sustainable agricultural, food, community development, and program/project monitoring and evaluation will be the basis of assignments and team work. This eight-week course will provide the theoretical and social frameworks and principles needed to successfully work in multi-agency partnerships on international development projects.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Select the most culturally-appropriate application of disciplinary knowledge and technologies for agriculture, food, natural resources and related sciences in development programs.
2.  Deconstruct self biases and intercultural effectiveness and their critical and creative thinking skills for different contexts in appropriate applications of scientific research as creative interventions and evaluation.
3.  Differentiate high and low oral and written communication skills, tolerance of cultural ambiguity, and adaptability.
4.  Judge the efficacy of applying appropriate theoretical frameworks for engaging stakeholders in projects to create sustainable impact.
5.  Determine the relevance of the result of applying principals and applications of ethical decision making and professional development.
6.  Reflect on one's progress and abilities to work in multi-disciplinary teams to carryout developing country assessments and conceptualize a viable project proposal under a tight deadline.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


