KOR 10200 - Korean Level II

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is the second half of the elementary Korean language sequence. As a continuation of KOR 10100, the main purpose of KOR 10200 is to expand on the study of the Korean language and culture. The class will introduce new material and explain conversational patterns considering grammatical, lexical, and pragmatic aspects of Korean. Some class meetings will be conducted entirely in Korean. Students continue to learn vocabulary, pronunciation, grammar, and the writing system by practicing Korean to achieve Novice High level of speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Assess sentence-length utterances auditorily and visually that consist of recombinations of learned elements applied to a limited number of contexts, such as organizing a party, shopping, placing orders, making telephone calls, describing symptoms of illness and scheduling appointments.
2.  Solve communicative problems related to uncomplicated, basic communicative tasks and social situations, such as making an apology, accepting and declining invitations, and making polite requests and suggestions by identifying linguistic meanings and producing new linguistic content.
3.  Identify meanings expressed in written materials with emphasis on survival and immediate needs, such as memos, messages, postcards, journal entries, brief narratives, and short letters relating information relevant to various aspects of student life.
4.  Produce simple texts of a few paragraphs such as skit, messages, short letters, and brief narratives by recombining learned material in Korean.
5.  Describe facts and evidence related to Korean history, culture, and daily life through simple authentic texts and materials such as magazines, drama skits, movies, K-pop lyrics, or traditional grams.



Prerequisites:

KOR 10200 Prerequisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
KOR
10100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
KOR
               6
 to 
               7

May not be taken concurrently.
)



