PUBH 58000 - Health Economics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will provide an introduction to the application of health economic principles as it relates to various health care systems, healthcare stakeholders and health policy issues in the United States. Topics include access to care; healthcare parity; relationships between economic characteristics and health status; impact of economy on health services industry; demand and resources for health services; utilization, prices, costs, and health insurance. This course is a core class for the Healthcare Operations certificate program. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the fundamental principles, generalizations and theories of health care economics and health care policy.
2.  Apply economics and policy to improve rational thinking, problem solving and decision making for health care issues.
3.  Develop skills, competencies and viewpoints needed by health services administrators.
4.  Know how and why health care policy is formulated, implemented, and modified (based on outcomes).
5.  Relate the relevance of economics to public policy.
6.  Understand the methodology and evaluation of various health programs and policies through the use of cost effectiveness and cost benefit analysis.
7.  Identify how to participate in the policy-making process.
8.  Communicate effectively orally and in writing with a wide range of people in varying settings.
9.  Apply complex concepts, develop creative solutions, or adapt previous solutions in new ways.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites:

GR-PUBH 60100 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HK
51000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
PUBH
60100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



