CM 33100 - Design And Construction II

Credit Hours: 6.00.  A course where students exert criticism and evaluation of existing design through a blend of lectures and studio work. Students will be exposed to typical impediments to the design of the built environment as they demonstrate integrative decision making in creating an aesthetic and functional design program that meet the needs of society in a resource efficient and sustainable manner. Students will regularly critique the work of others and have their work critiqued as they seek to shape and implement informed design decisions.

    0.000 OR     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Construction Mgmt Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Exercise criticism in relation to built environment design disciplines by taking user needs, aesthetics, cost, schedule, safety and technical demands into consideration at the same time.
2.  Identify sustainability, efficiencies and resource conservation principles to be applied in the built environment.
3.  Elaborate sketches, two-dimension drawings or three-dimension models using standard design conventions to aid in the design and construction coordination.
4.  Demonstrate the skills associated with making integrated decisions across multiple systems and variables in the completion of a design project.
5.  Demonstrate professionalism by analyzing proper communication, team work, rules & regulations, and level of detail required within an integrated approach to the design and construction of the built environment.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CM 20000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CM 33000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CM 30000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


