EEE 36000 - Environmental And Ecological Engineering Laboratory

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00.  An introduction to laboratory methods of analysis of Environmental and Ecological Engineering systems.  Topics will change from semester to semester and will be announced in advance.  The list of possible topics includes experimental design, treatment of data, the analytical determination of chemical and biological constituents in water, soil, and air; analysis of environmental and ecological engineering processes; analysis of life-cycle characteristics and impacts of consumer products and commodities; methods of prevention and remediation of manufacturing waste streams.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Div of Environ & Ecol Engr 

Department: Environ & Ecological Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Ability to acquire experimental data and evaluate experimental error and variability.
2.  Understanding of data reduction, analysis and presentation.
3.  Ability to produce professional technical communication of experimental conclusions.
4.  Ability to summarize results of quantitative analysis to propose management strategies for environmental problems.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  CHEM C1220 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CHEM C1020 Minimum Grade of D-) or (Undergraduate level  CHEM C1060 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CHEM C1260 Minimum Grade of D-)


