HTM 30200 - Hospitality And Tourism Industry Internship

Credit Hours: 1.00 or 2.00.  This course is a supervised and structured industry internship experience. Students are required to obtain a signed internship learning agreement with an employer prior to starting the internship. The internship consists of rotations through at least 3 functional areas. Students are also required to prepare comprehensive written management reports reflecting upon their internship experience and present employer evaluation. Variable credits with a minimum of 320 work hours needed for each credit hour or 640 for two credit hours. Typically offered Summer.

    1.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Full-Time Privileges, Internship, Practicum, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 2 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop and apply interviewing and negotiating skills during the process of seeking and being hired into an internship.
2.  Recall and explain the strengths and weaknesses of departments and work units from the hospitality operation in which they interned.
3.  Describe and explain interactions with the hospitality operation's guests and the development of a positive service oriented attitude.
4.  Compare and contrast the differences and similarities of management styles and leadership skill of the supervisors they worked with; evaluate the effectiveness of supervisor or manager; analyze which type of style or skill fits best with their style.
5.  Identify new and different experiences encountered during the internship; distinguish the positive and negative aspects of the experience, and appraise these experiences as to their value to their future Hospitality management career.
6.  Recall coursework related knowledge and apply and demonstrate this knowledge in areas of Human Resource Management, Finance, Management, Law, and other applicable areas in a hospitality organization.
7.  Synthesize the total internship learning experience by completing comprehensive management reports.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites:

6 Credits in HTM


General Requirements:

Course or Test: 
HTM

Required Credits: 
        6.000

Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.


