NUR 31501 - Nursing Of Childbearing Families

Credit Hours: 5.00.  Promotes the development of nursing skills when caring for families and their newborns  during uncomplicated and/or complicated childbearing experiences within  a variety of clinical settings. Emphasizes the study and application of the nursing process, integrating evidence based practice while meeting the health and safety needs of diverse childbearing families.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Integrate theory and evidence to guide practice and influence clinical decision making when caring for childbearing families across a variety of settings.
2. Apply the nursing process when prioritizing care of the childbearing family to maximize family participation in health promotion and disease prevention.
3. Recognize the impact of developmental and physiological variations in the care of the maternal fetal dyad.
4. Evaluate actual and potential physiological and psychological risk factors during the childbearing  cycle.
5. Assess the impact of sociocultural influences on the delivery and utilization of health-care services for childbearing families.
6. Design a plan of care integrating professional organizations and institutional standards.
7. Recognize the professional nursing role when communicating and collaborating within the intra- and inter-professional teams when partnering with clients to provide  safe, quality nursing care.
8. Provide ethical, legal, compassionate and culturally appropriate nursing care to the childbearing family.
9. Assess self-awareness of professional growth.
10. Utilize information technology to enhance learning, practice and communication.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 22001 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22101 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C [may be taken concurrently]


