AT 54400 - Aircraft Lifecycle Management Innovations

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course explores sustainability as applied to aviation and aerospace industries and agencies, both in the private sector and public sector. Students improve analysis skills, and knowledge of the reasoning and application of sustainability. Emphasis is placed on understanding the global and national policies that lead to the regulations and practices in aviation and aerospace. Using a balanced scorecard and a triple bottom line approach, students will develop a project using aviation and aerospace publications to analyze an industry-relevant project using sustainability in the analysis.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Aviation & Transp Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze and identify relational components of a complex high technology data architecture using the FAA's Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen) construct; create and deploy a small scale aircraft maintenance data management system.
2.  Create visual process and data flow maps documenting current and future system and technology constructs within aircraft Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO), its complexity and role in the support of a product/asset's in-service lifecycle.
3.  Conceptualize and explain complex data system structures, the role of systems thinking and technical data needs, and their role in "NextGen" product/asset MRO sustainability.
4.  Analyze and identify specific technical data content and delivery needs of the maintainer, within a NextGen, network-enabled work environment for large aircraft.
5.  Present and defend a formal report describing a maintenance operations design and improvement project, the methodology used in the project, and the results.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-AT 54400 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
AT
54000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



