HSCI 54600 - Advanced Industrial Hygiene Control Technology

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Study of the various techniques needed to control hazards in the workplace. Engineering controls are placed in effort to reduce or remove the hazard at the source by isolating the worker from the hazard. Major emphasis is placed on developing a working understanding of industrial ventilation, including basic principles of fluid flow, hood and duct design, and system balancing. Effects and control of the physical hazards of noise, vibration, and heat stress are addressed. A field trip to a major industry summarizes the course material. Typically offered Spring.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use scientific and engineering principles to anticipate and recognize potential health hazards in the workplace.
2.  Interpret the scientific literature and health data and apply these to the anticipating, recognition, evaluation and control of occupational hazards in the workplace.
3.  Describe/understand different approaches for controlling exposures in the occupational environment and give hypothetical and real situations in terms of the best control methods and relative pros & cons.
4.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of heat stress and heat strain and apply this knowledge to prevent heat injury in the workplace.
5.  Understand potential sources of indoor air quality problems, physical symptoms which may be experienced by individuals exposed to various contaminants, and methods of improving the indoor environment.
6.  Identify biological contaminants and methods of controlling exposure.
7.  Understand the physical and physiological aspects of noise-induced hearing loss and apply this knowledge to assess exposure and prevent hearing loss in the workplace.
8.  Perform calculations of noise levels, noise doses and the effectiveness of noise control options.
9.  Select and size the components of a local exhaust ventilation system: hoods, ductwork, air cleaners, fans, and balance/test such systems, culminating in the ability to design a small ventilation system.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-HSCI 54600 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
34500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
HSCI
34600


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



