NUR 22101 - Pathopharmocology II

Credit Hours: 3.00. An introduction to the study of underlying changes in primary physiologic regulatory mechanisms affecting respiratory, hematologic, endocrine, neurologic, neuromuscular, gastrointestinal and reproductive function and the pharmacotherapies utilized as treatment for alterations and disease states. This course builds on the learning objectives from Pathopharmacology I to provide the foundation for the understanding and practice of general nursing. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the primary regulatory mechanisms affecting respiratory, hematologic, endocrine, neurologic, neuromuscular, gastrointestinal and reproductive function. 
2.  Recognize the clinical manifestations of disease resulting from genetic/genomic and physiologic alterations affecting respiratory, hematologic, endocrine, neurologic, neuromuscular, gastrointestinal and reproductive function. 
3.  Describe selected diagnostic, therapeutic and pharmacologic interventions in the prevention and treatment of alterations affecting respiratory, hematologic, endocrine, neurologic, neuromuscular, gastrointestinal and reproductive function.
4.  Identify major drug classifications and pharmacokinetic processes utilized in the prevention and treatment of disease with emphasis on selected, frequently prescribed medications. 
5.  Identify primary indications, contradictions, mechanism of action, potential side effects and adverse reactions of frequently prescribed medications in order to integrate pharmacologic knowledge into the overall therapeutic plan for restoring or maintaining homeostasis. 
6.  Identify factors which contribute to safe medication practice, risk reduction and prevention of misuse or abuse of pharmacotherapy. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 21901 Minimum Grade of C


