CPB 85401 - Epidemiology And Evidence-Based Veterinary Medicine

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The fundamentals of descriptive and analytical epidemiology will be developed as they relate to problems in veterinary and comparative medicine.  A primary goal of the course is to expose future health professionals to the information and thought processes that are essential for critically evaluating the medical literature and for making decisions regarding health care for individuals and populations.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Comparative Pathobiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Characterize different epidemiological study designs, including experimental studies, clinical trials, and commonly used observational studies such as cross-sectional, cohort, and case-control studies.
2.  Interpret basic epidemiologic measures, including prevalence and incidence measures for disease occurrence and ratio and difference measures for association.           
3.  Implement causal thinking by assessing potential bias, confounding and random error.
4.  Understand basic terminology of infectious disease epidemiology.
5.  Understand methods of disease surveillance and their corresponding strengths and weaknesses
6.  Describe the steps in an outbreak investigation.
7.  Define sensitivity, specificity, false positive fraction and false negative fraction and use them to compare discriminative performance of different diagnostic tests.
8.  Interpret numeric results commonly presented in journal articles such as odds ratio, 95% CI, and p-value.
9.  Critically appraise evidence presented in clinical studies and scientific research articles.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


