GSLA 48000 - Senior Interdisciplinary Capstone Project In Global Studies I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The senior capstone course for Global Studies majors is designed to give students the chance to define and complete a research project of personal interest, and to integrate the interdisciplinary aspects of their entire curricula into one project. Students must complete GSLA 48000 and GSLA 48001. The capstone courses are offered to students in their senior year to be completed the final two semesters of their major. Students will assemble a committee of two or more faculty members willing to direct their work. The Director of Global Studies will be an ex-officio member of the committee. Students will incorporate their prior coursework (including foreign language training), study abroad, and/or internships into their final project. The capstone may be, but is not limited to, a senior honors project, a multimedia project, service learning, or directed research. 
Timeline for a successful capstone project: Spring of Sophomore year: After three semesters of course work, the student will start defining an area of interest or passion that will form the basis of their capstone research. Junior Year: The student will select courses in their interest area. They will also start speaking to faculty members in the field in order to assemble their committee. Spring of Junior Year: Students will finalize their faculty committee to direct their research. Fall of Senior Year: Research Semester, as directed by the committee. GSLA 48000. Spring of Senior Year: Complete project. GSLA 48001. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Interdis Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an awareness of Global issues through academic inquiry and extracurricular engagement.
2.  Critically apply multi-perspective research frameworks to a concrete problem or case.
3.  Recognize historic roots of Global inequality.
4.  Develop intercultural competence and demonstrate empathy for difference.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  GSLA 10100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  GSLA 30100 Minimum Grade of D-


