EDPS 40099 - Topics In Design Based Research, Assessment And Evaluation

Credit Hours: 3.00. Design-Based Research (DBR) is inquiry that is driven by educational practice- the desire to understand and improve the practice of teaching and learning. Learning scientist employ DBR in order to implement innovative designs for teaching and learning in a variety of formal and informal educational settings (e.g., schools, museums, and extramural clubs) and to conduct research no teaching and learning that occurs in the context of their design innovations. The focus of this course is to help students develop a set of core competencies for systemically studying the teaching and learning of science in designed environments. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the various forms of design-based research that are conducted in education.
2.  Critically evaluate the strengths and limitations of examples of design-based research in the literature on science teaching and learning. 
3.  Develop a proposal for a design-based research study and present this proposal, both orally and in writing to a review panel of peers (classmates).    




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 23500 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  STAT 11300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  STAT 30100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  STAT 35000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  EDPS 53300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  EDPS 53400 Minimum Grade of D-)


