VCS 81101 - Small Animal Surgery Lab I

Credit Hours: 1.50.  Introduction to basic skills in surgery and anesthesia. Models are used to learn basic skills of instrument use, ligation, dissection, and suturing.  Students will progress to common anesthetic and surgical procedures on live and cadaver animals. The live animal surgery will teach physical examination, formulating an anesthetic plan, anesthetic induction, maintenance and recovery, as well as feline spay and neuter. Typically offered Fall.

    1.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate effective teamwork.
2.  Communicate clearly and effectively with peers, faculty and staff.
3.  Provide excellent patient care to teaching animals and animals from the humane society.
4.  Scrub, gown and glove correctly, and maintain aseptic technique in the operating room.
5.  Prepare the surgical site and drape correctly.
6.  Name and correctly use each general surgical instrument.
7.  Efficiently perform one-handed ties, two-handed ties, and instrument ties to make square knots.
8.  Correctly place basic suture patterns.
9.  Correctly and gently handle tissues and apply appropriate hemostatic techniques.
10.  Open the abdomen through a ventral midline abdominal incision and close it properly.
11.  Correctly and safely perform ovariohysterectomy and castration in cats.
12.  Perform the emergency procedures of chest tube placement and tracheotomy tube placement.
13.  Induce and maintain general anesthesia and monitor the anesthetized patient.
14.  Safely recover an animal from general anesthesia.
15.  Perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
16.  Administer postoperative care, including analgesic therapy, and detect postoperative complications.
17.  Keep appropriate medical records.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


