ENGL 42100 - Technical Writing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Workplace writing in networked environments for technical contexts. Emphasizes context and user analysis, data analysis/display, project planning, document management, usability, ethics, research, team writing. Typical genres include technical reports, memos, documentation, Web sites. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: English 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Create written documents that use persuasion and emphasize audience and the ethical dimensions of technical communication.
2.  Manage written projects using the appropriate technologies and documentation.
3.  Design documents that meet audience expectations, including instructions, visual argument, and technical descriptions.
4.  Collaborate effectively including working online, determining roles, managing conflicts, providing feedback, and responding constructively to obstacles.
5.  Produce written documents that triangulate sources of evidence and use appropriate research methods.
6.  Know and use multiple appropriate literacy technologies.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ENGL 10600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10800 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  ENG W1500 Minimum Grade of D-) or (Undergraduate level  ENGL 10100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  ENGL 10200 Minimum Grade of D-) or (Undergraduate level  ENG W1310 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  ENG W1320 Minimum Grade of D-) or Undergraduate level  HONR 19903 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  SCLA 10100 Minimum Grade of D-


