CE 29202 - Contemporary Issues In Civil Engineering

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course provides a forum on issues in the civil engineering profession in a contemporary context. Topics include professionalism and ethics, entrepreneurship, cultural differences, and collaborating globally. Students have interactions with engineering faculty and professionals outside the University. Guidance on the preparation of individual plans of study and information on civil engineering career options are provided. Students learn and apply fundamental aspects of written communication in professional settings. Emphasis is placed on delivery of technical and managerial content. Students will compile a professional portfolio of communication assignments, including lab reports prepared in other CE courses.


    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Ability to communicate effectively.
2.  Ability to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global and societal context.
3.  Knowledge of contemporary issues, particularly with respect to nuclear topics.
4.  Understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Agr and Bio Engr

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


