VCS 86203 - Shelter Medicine And Surgery

Credit Hours: 3.00. Students will spend two weeks performing elective surgery on shelter animals in the mobile surgery unit and one week working at an off-campus shelter. The mobile surgery unit, staffed by a DVM faculty member and a full-time RVT will operate 4 days per week, estimated 12 hours per day. Students will perform independent study on the day they do not participate in mobile surgery. During the one week at the shelter, students will work approximately 50 hours spread over 5 days of the week assisting the shelter medicine veterinarian in all aspects of shelter medicine. There will be a limit of 4 students per block, with a maximum of 3 students participating in the mobile surgery unit at any time. Preference will be given to students who are planning to specialize in shelter medicine. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Improve their knowledge, technical skills, and competence in small animal elective surgery and anesthesia, including pediatric surgery, so that they will be able to safely anesthetize and, with high quality and attention to detail, perform a dog spay in 45 minutes or less.
2.  Gain insight into issues in shelter medicine, including small animal population medicine, infectious disease control, animal welfare and pet relinquishment issues.
3.  Improve their physical examination and patient evaluation skills, anatomical knowledge, efficiency of movement, and interpersonal communication skills. 
4.  Foster relationships between Purdue University and local animal shelters.  



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Fourth Year

      Professional Fifth Year

      Professional Third Year


