FS 24500 - Food Packaging

Credit Hours: 1.00.  Elements of packaging science and technology applied to preservation, distribution, and marketing of food products; packaging materials; principles of diffusion and permeability; procedures for developing, evaluating, and testing food packages; packaging requirements for specific types of foods; other special topics of current interest. Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Department of Food Science 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Appreciate the important role that packaging plays in  today's sophisticated food processing operations, its effect on final product quality and self-life, and its influence on distribution methods and marketing related decisions. 
2.  Understand the basic packaging materials and the technology to produce food packages.
3.  Understand basic concepts of diffusion, permeation, and migration, especially as they relate to package properties, food quality, and product shelf-life.
4.  Develop general guidelines for selecting appropriate packaging materials to fit the needs of specific food products. 
5.  Have a general appreciation of the methods used to test and evaluate packaging materials for specific properties and whole containers for integrity, suitability, and overall performance. 
6.  Intelligently discuss current food packaging related topics (i.e. package degradability/recyclability, tamper evident/proof packaging, modified atmosphere packaging, aseptic packaging, microwaveable packaging, etc.)




Prerequisites:

3 Credits in Mathematics


General Requirements:

Course or Test: 
MA

Required Credits: 
        3.000

Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.

Prerequisites:

FS 16100 Course


General Requirements:

Course or Test: 
FS
16100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.


