MA 15800 - Precalculus- Functions And Trigonometry

Credit Hours: 3.00. Functions, Trigonometry, and Algebra of calculus topics designed to fully prepare students for all first semester calculus courses. Functions topics include Quadratic, Higher Order Polynomials, Rational, Exponential, Logarithmic, and Trigonometric. Other focuses include graphing of functions and solving application problems. Not Available for credit toward graduation in the College of Science. Students may not receive credit for both MA 15400 and MA 15800. Students may not receive credit for both MA 15900 and MA 15800. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Mathematics 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Exempt, Lower Division, GTC-Quantitative Reasoning, UC-Quantitative Reasoning 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  An understanding of the concept of a function.
2.  An ability to graph and interpret the graphs of a wide variety of functions.
3.  An ability to develop mathematical models and solve a variety of application problems, using various types of equations, systems of equations, and functions.
4.  An understanding the concept of an inverse function and how to apply that in particular with exponential, logarithmic and trigonometric functions.
5.  An understanding of graphical transformations of functions.
6.  An understanding of Polar Equations and the ability to graph Polar Equations. 




Prerequisites: 

  ALEKS Math Assessment 060 or  ACT Math 24 or  SATR Math 570 or  SAT Mathematics 550 or (Undergraduate level  MA 15300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MATH 15300 Minimum Grade of C-)


