PTEC 20801 - Formation And Immersion I

Credit Hours:  3.00.  Part one of the second in a series of transdisciplinary, real-world, project-based work and conversations exploring the intersections of humanities and technology, social and natural sciences. Projects emphasize design thinking; collaboration; communication; hands-on prototyping; testing; assessing. Learners will engage in individual and team project work and conversations that will change in scale and scope based on the learner's experience, goals, and learning needs.  Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Demonstrate developing to emerging level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of science, technology, and quantitative reasoning using project-based techniques to address unstructured, real-world problems.
2. Demonstrate developing to emerging level of understanding and skill with individual and team based project work.
3. Demonstrate developing to emerging level of understanding of issues related to the intersection of technology and culture using a variety of effective communication techniques.
4. Demonstrate developing to emerging level of information literacy using a variety of effective communication techniques.
5. Demonstrate developing to emerging level of understanding of connecting acquired knowledge and skills to the primary program competencies.



Corequisites: 

PTEC 20601


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  PTEC 10601 Minimum Grade of P or Undergraduate level  PTEC 10601 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  PTEC 10801 Minimum Grade of P or Undergraduate level  PTEC 10801 Minimum Grade of D-)


