BIOL 28600 - Introduction To Ecology And Evolution

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Evolutionary processes and ecological principles associated with individuals, populations, communities, and ecosystems. Topics include genetic drift, natural selection, adaptation, life tables, population dynamics, competition, predation, biodiversity, and ecological stability, with emphasis on natural systems.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
4.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
6.  Understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding.
7.  Understand the principles of how energy is obtained, stored and used in biological processes.	
8.  Understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological processes.	
9.  Understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability.	
10.  Understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher levels.	
11.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.	
12.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.	
13.  Demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.	
14.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.	
15.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.	
16.  Demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.	
17.  Demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.	
18.  Demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.	
19.  Demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.	
20.  Demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.	
21.  Understand ways in which organisms interact ecologically with each other and their environment.
22.  Understand how evolutionary forces influence organisms to produce adaptations.
23.  Acquire knowledge of the ways in which animals communicate with each other.
24.  Exhibit proficiency in population and community ecology, animal behavior, and evolutionary mechanisms.
25.  Exhibit proficiency in population and quantitative genetics.
26.  Be familiar with taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among organisms.
27.  Extend basic ecological principles to species and ecosystem conservation.
28.  Experience working with organisms in natural settings.
29.  Learn to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
30.  Use and understand the scientific method, including how to generate hypotheses and predictions, develop an experimental design, collect data, statistically analyze data, and interpret results.
31.  Be familiar with taxonomic, ecological, and phylogenetic relationships among microorganisms including biogeochemical nutrient cycling, microbial diversity, and the biotechnological application of microbes to address environmental and energy problems.
32.  Able to demonstrate knowledge of how evolutionary forces impact and shape microbial function and activity.
33.  Able to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
34.  Able to demonstrate an understanding of the scientific method including hypothesis generation and testing, data collection, analysis, and interpretation.










Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11000 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  BIOL 11100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BTNY 11000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BTNY 21000 Minimum Grade of D-)   ) or Undergraduate level  BIOL 12100 Minimum Grade of D-


