ENGT 58300 - Applied Engineering Statistics For Industry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The purpose of this course is to teach the practitioner how to use and make better informed decisions as a manager for making optimum process, business, or personnel decisions. Emphasis will be placed on Verification, Validation in R&D, Manufacturing, QA/QC, basic probability, Summarizing Data, Basic Tools (flowcharts, fishbone diagrams, Pareto charts), Process Capability - Cp/Cpk. Upper and lower control limits/charts, Use of Control Charts for Continual Improvement, Six Sigma, Design of Experiments, Taguchi Methodology and Data Analytics will also be covered. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Dual Campus

      Indianapolis

      Elkhart

      Greensburg

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      Muncie

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Statewide

      Vincennes

      Versailles


Learning Outcomes: 
1.   Demonstrate the importance of the Central Limit Theorem and its application.
2.   Evaluate the capability of a process using the process capability index (CPI).
3.   Analyze variation reduction in relation to process capability and design of experiments.
4.   Articulate how single-piece flow, standard work, and continuous improvement processes enable variation reduction.
5.   Determine the expected number of defects from a given process.
6.   Explain the statistical meaning of Six Sigma.
7.   Differentiate between Type I and Type II errors.
8.   Calculate the sample size based on specified Type I and Type II Error.
9.   Calculate a confidence interval.
10. Define direct run rate I first time through and its calculation.
11. Develop a hypothesis test.
12. Calculate regression and correlation of data and distinguish between correlation and causation.
13. Select and evaluate the test statistic for different kinds of hypothesis tests and make statistical inference decisions.
14. Construct and evaluate an ANOVA table and make statistical inference decisions.
15. Differentiate among different types of experimental designs and design an experiment.
16. Demonstrate the Taguchi quality loss function and how to make quality loss calculations.
17. Classify the procedural errors that can occur in experimental design, such as confirmation bias.
18. Explain data mining and Big Data and their role in the future of experimental design.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


