FNR 53600 - Ecology Of Disturbance

Credit Hours: 2.00. Advanced lecture-and discussion-based class examining how disturbance shapes the composition and structure of communities and landscapes across major terrestrial biomes. Students will examine and discuss the relationships between disturbance intensity, frequency, and spatial extent and how these characteristics affect ecological processes and ecologically-based management of forest and grassland ecosystems. The class will also examine the synergistic effects of multiple disturbances and the restoration of endemic disturbance regimes in contemporary ecosystems. Course is reading intensive; students will read and discuss on average 3-8 journal articles per week. Typically offered in even years. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe how disturbance shapes community composition and structure for several major terrestrial biomes. 
2.  Understand how disturbance regulates biological diversity across terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. 
3.  Understand the relationship between disturbance intensity, frequency, and spatial extent and how those factors affect management of forest and grassland ecosystems. 
4.  Describe the synergistic nature of disturbance and identify how disturbance factors interact across a landscape. 
5.  Describe how contemporary and restored disturbance regimes may facilitate or suppress the spread of invasive species. 
6.  Understand how management activities can mimic endemic disturbance regimes to promote biodiversity and sustainability. 




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-FNR53600 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
FNR
33100


Minimum Grade of 
B

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
58500


Minimum Grade of 
B

May not be taken concurrently.
)



