EDCI 36303 - Literacy Teaching And Assessment In K-6

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is an undergraduate, elementary education course designed to provide preservice teachers with classroom and practicum experiences focused on literacy instruction for children experiencing difficulty learning to read and write. Students learn to administer and analyze individual assessments to determine the strengths and needs of a struggling reader/writer and set tutoring goals based on these results. Application of appropriate instructional strategies for developing comprehension, letter and word study, vocabulary, and fluency is the focus of twice-weekly, 30 minute tutoring sessions (22+ total) in local elementary schools. Teaching is designed around children's social justice concerns. Admission to Teacher Education is required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate the importance of providing instruction to meet the needs of all children through their teaching.
2.  Implement a framework for assessment and instruction that allows the teacher to evaluate and adjust for an optimal match between the reader/writer, the text and the literacy context.
3.  Translate assessment findings into a plan for instructional support that is realistic in view of the child's needs and the available resources.
4.  Use assessment as an ongoing guide to instructional decisions.
5.  Become skillful in observing, planning, implementing, and evaluating literacy lessons.
6.  Demonstrate knowledge of materials, procedures, and strategies for individual and group literacy instruction.
7.  Examine a range of assessment and evaluation tools and strategies.
8.  Report to others their assessments of students' literacy learning.
9.  Work as a team with peers and school personnel.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 24000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 24800 Minimum Grade of C-


