HK 55000 - Evaluation And Management Of Medical Conditions

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Course covering an in-depth study of the normal anatomical structures in the thorax and abdomen, including the cardiovascular, digestive, urinary, reproductive, endocrine, and lymphatic systems. Also discussed are common risk factors and causes of injuries as identified by contemporary epidemiological studies, common injuries to each body part, typical symptoms, and common clinical signs associated with injuries and illnesses with the physically active. A lab covering injury assessment techniques of common illnesses and disease most often encountered by allied healthcare professionals will be included. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify specific anatomical structures such as bony landmarks, soft tissue and joint structures in the thorax and abdomen.
2.  Apply different methods of prevention for many injuries commonly seen in the thorax and abdomen.
3.  Differentiate general treatment and rehabilitation protocols to use with injuries in the thorax and abdomen.
4.  Identify the role and function of commonly used prescription and non-prescription pharmacological agents in the treatment of Injuries/illness commonly seen in the thorax and abdomen.
5.  Demonstrate through low fidelity simulation sound evaluation techniques of the thorax and abdomen.
6.  Explain modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors pertaining to general medical conditions across the life span in the physically active and special populations.
7.  Explain and identify the etiology, prevention, recognition and management of conditions leading to sudden death.
8.  Explain and identify the etiology, prevention, recognition and management of general medical conditions associated with the systems of the body across the life span in the physically active and special populations.
9.  Demonstrate the ability to assess and interpret findings in the evaluation of general medical conditions, using diagnostic accuracy and clinical prediction rules, associated with the systems of the body.
10.  Explain the general therapeutic strategy, including drug categories for the treatment of general medical conditions.
11.  Use available resources to identify indications, contraindications, precautions, and adverse reactions of prescription and non-prescription medications.
12.  Develop a clinical question, search for, assess, and synthesize evidence related to general medication conditions and pharmacology.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 52000 Minimum Grade of B- and Graduate level  HK 53000 Minimum Grade of B-


