HK 30500 - Injury Assessment I

Credit Hours: 4.00.  A guided lecture and laboratory experience designed to teach the student injury assessment techniques normally required of an athletic trainer. Topics include splinting and transportation, equipment fitting and fabrication, lower extremity injury evaluation, taping and bracing. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify specific anatomical structures such as bony landmarks, soft tissue and joint structures in the lower extremities and spine.
2.  Identify different methods of prevention for many injuries commonly seen in the lower extremities and spine.
3.  Identify common risk factors and causes of injury commonly seen in athletics and the physically active.
4.  Explain gender differences in the musculoskeletal system and the impact on injury management for the lower extremities.
5.  Identify anatomical growth and development characteristics of males and females in the following stages: pre-adolescent and adolescent.
6.  Demonstrate general treatment and rehabilitation protocols to use with injuries in the lower extremities.
7.  Demonstrate general treatment and rehabilitation protocols to use with injuries in the spine.
8.  Identify the role and function of commonly used prescription and non-prescription pharmacological agents in the treatment of injuries/illness commonly seen in the upper extremities and spine.
9.  Demonstrate through low fidelity simulation sound evaluation techniques of lower extremity and spinal conditions.
10.  Explain the different psychomotor test characteristics - validity, reliability, sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, odds ratios, etc., as they relate to selection of special tests.
11.  Synthesize test psychometric data to select appropriate tests and measures during assessment. 
12.  Formulate a clinical question and perform a literature search to answer the question.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Athletic Training


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HK 20800 Minimum Grade of D-


