HSCI 54400 - Advanced Topics In Exposure Assessment

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The course will prepare students to use techniques of exposure assessment as it relates to environmental and occupational epidemiological studies as well as regulatory compliance at workplace and in community settings, risk science, and susceptibility factors. It will include exposure assessment study design, the strengths and weaknesses of various exposure assessment techniques, and how to link exposure assessment with occupational and environmental health. Core concepts to be covered include exposure variability and its implications for reconstructing historical exposures, the choice of exposure metric, surrogate measures and measurement errors, exposure modeling, and biomarkers of exposure. The course emphasizes critical and analytical discussions of seminal exposure assessment literature. Students are required to critically evaluate exposure assessment strategies in selected epidemiological studies from the peer-reviewed literature. Students participate in the class through presentations, class discussions, and a semester project. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain the nature of exposure problems in reconstructing historical exposures in occupational and non-occupational settings.
2.  Recognize the implications of sparse and missing data and the choice of the exposure-response relationship.
3.  Design a testable hypothesis and execute research activity to investigate exposure to environmental contaminants at workplace or in a community, and interpret data obtained from such studies.
4.  Be aware of the modeling tools for quantifying exposures.
5.  Evaluate critically exposure assessment strategies in occupational and environmental epidemiological studies and risk assessments.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-HSCI 34500 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
34500


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May be taken concurrently.
)



