ECE 53800 - Digital Signal Processing I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Theory and algorithms for processing of deterministic and stochastic signals. Topics include discrete signals, systems, and transforms, linear filtering, fast Fourier transform, nonlinear filtering, spectrum estimation, linear prediction, adaptive filtering, and array signal processing.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Indiana College Network, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      PU Fort Wayne

      IUPUI

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the autocorrelation and covariance methods of estimating the correlation matrix.
2.  Know the Discrete Time Fourier Transform (DTFT) and its relationship to the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT).
3.  Comprehend of parametric methods of spectrum estimation, including autoregressive modeling, minimum variance, linear prediction, and eigendecomposition-based methods.
4.  Understand nonparametric methods of spectrum estimation, including the periodogram and the correlogram.
5.  Understand of linear filters, including the Wiener filter, as applied stochastic to signals.
6.  Introduce to adaptive filters, including the method of steepest descent and the least-mean-square (LMS) algorithms.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-ECE 30100 & 30200 Req


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ECE
30100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
ECE
30200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



