CHE 43500 - Chemical Engineering Laboratory

Credit Hours: 4.00.  Quantitative experimental study of projects involving problems in fluid mechanics and heat and mass transfer or operation and evaluation of equipment; projects include analysis and data-based design of operations involving mass transfer such as distillation, absorption, drying, humidification, etc.; study of rates and equilibria in simple chemical reaction systems; study of chemical processes; application of methods of data analysis in practice; some library work; emphasis on group work, report writing, and oral communication.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Chemical Engineering 

Department: Chemical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Determine the intrinsic performance data required to complete the design of a given process or process equipment. 
2.  Design and conduct an experimental program to determine the required performance data.  
3.  Use the requisite performance data to obtain a technically feasible and economical design to meet desired needs. 
4.  Effectively report experimental results, performancedata analyses and process designs both orally and in writing. 
5.  Use appropriate analytical and computational tools for the analysis and design of experiments. 
6.  Work effectively as a member of an engineering team in a professional and ethical manner, including different team roles. 
7.  Practice appropriate experimental safety measures.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Chemical Engineering


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CHE 32000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHE 34800 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHE 37800 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHE 30600 Minimum Grade of C-


