PUBH 57600 - Workforce Management And Organizational Behavior In Healthcare

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course focuses on the relationships between healthcare administration and human resource management across various health care organizations, including hospitals, long-term care facilities, and community health organizations. Topics include personnel recruitment and training; compensation and benefits; performance evaluations; staffing plans; employee discipline; and credentialing health care professionals. This course is a core class for the "Healthcare Operations" certificate program. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify strategies for the recruitment, selection, development, and retention of quality health care professionals while applying accreditation criteria to human       resources practices.
2.  Apply human resources management for problem solving and decision-making.
3.  Identify various legal issues, which require managerial attention and strategy.
4.  Understand the changing workforce dynamics and the issues associated with labor shortages of skilled professionals in the healthcare industry.
5.  Prepare for future challenges and examining future trends in the human resource field within the industry of healthcare.
6.  Understand regulatory compliance issues uniquely associated to the field of health care (such as Joint Commission) standards pertaining to safety, emergency preparedness, job analysis, performance appraisals, and employee retention.
7.  Analyze employee productivity in patient-centered environments.
8.  Put human resource principles, concepts, generalizations, theories and models into practice
9.  Analyze the impact human resources management has on strategy formulation and strategy implementation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


