ENGR 13200 - Transforming Ideas To Innovation II

Credit Hours: 2.00. A partnership between Schools and Programs within the College of Engineering continues building on the foundation developed in ENGR 13100. Students take a more in depth and holistic approach to integrating multiple disciplines perspectives while constructing innovative engineering solutions to open-ended problems. Extending skills in project management engineering fundamentals, oral and graphical communication, logical thinking, team work, and modern engineering tools (e.g., Excel and MATLAB). Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Studio, Studio 1 


Offered By: First Year Engineering 

Department: Engineering Education 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.	Describe the engineering disciplines at Purdue and the interrelationships among them as well as know what graduates of at least three disciplines of engineering do.
2.	Apply engineering fundamentals and basic engineering science concepts to create feasible engineering solutions that are justifiable.
3.	Use a problem identification process to create written engineering criteria to satisfy a problem.
4.	Use an engineering formulation and solving process to translate an engineering scenario into a model.
5.	Explain how an engineering problem solving process relates to a design process.
6.	Design a process to communicate technical information orally and visually and demonstrate skills for cross-cultural communication.
7.	Apply an engineering problem solving and design process to: generate ideas, model, analyze, predict, and build an innovative object of engineering interest taking into consideration its societal and environmental impact.
8.	Apply a systems approach in solving engineering problems and in undertaking design projects.
9.	Demonstrate appropriate knowledge and behaviors for effective and ethical membership on a technical team (i.e., teaming skills).
10.	Exhibit a work ethic appropriate for the engineering profession.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      First Year Engineering

      Pre Agr & Biol Engineering


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ENGR 13100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ENGR 14100 Minimum Grade of C-


