PHRM 46400 - Preparing For Postgraduate Residency Program

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This elective course will focus on preparing for the pharmacy residency program selection process. The purpose of this course is to discuss various aspects of the selection process, provide students with guidance regarding each step of the process, and provide feedback regarding materials such as curriculum vitaes (CVs), letters of intent, and thank you notes. This course is intended to guide the students through the process using events, which normally occur during the residency search including pre-Midyear preparation, navigating American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP) Midyear, the post-Midyear application and interview process, and the Match. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop short-term and long-term professional and personal goals.
2.  Discuss reasons why you want to complete a residency/post graduate training program.
3.  Research residency programs and prepare a residency rank list based on professional and personal career goals. 
4.  List various ways in which residency program information can be obtained and evaluate programs based on your particular areas of interest. 
5.  Explain the general process involved in the residency search including navigation of ASHP Midyear Meeting, application and interview timeline, the Match process, and the post-Match process. 
6.  Identify key components of being a successful resident.
7.  Revise a CV based on peer and faculty feedback and give appropriate feedback on others' CVs.
8.  Create a professional, polished CV that can be continually updated.
9.  Create a letter of intent appropriate for a residency program application.
10.  Develop a complete residency application for multiple programs.
11.  Demonstrate appropriate verbal and non-verbal interview skills.
12.  Demonstrate professionalism throughout all course activities and interactions.
13.  Demonstrate an inquisitive mindset by asking questions and actively seeking out answers to your inquires.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


