OBHR 33000 - Introduction To Organizational Behavior

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course investigates the impact that individuals, groups, and organizational structure have on behavior within organizations for the purpose of applying such knowledge toward improving an organization's effectiveness. Attention is given to such topics as motivation, leadership, group processes, organizational structure, technological innovation, and conflict management. Emphasis is placed on developing management skills and application of organizational behavior theories.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn basic principles and concepts of organizational behavior.
2.  Examine issues relating to the interaction between human beings and the organizational context within which they work.
3.  Gain a better understanding of their own organizational behavior, both as an employee, team member and leader.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics Honors

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Human Resource Development

      IM/Analytical Consulting

      IM/Computer Science

      IM/Data Analytics

      IM/Economics

      IM/Economics Honors

      IM/Engineering

      IM/Financial Engineering

      IM/Mgmt Info Systems

      IM/Manufac & Svc Operations

      IM/Quantitative Methods

      IM/Science

      IM/Sci, Tech, Engr & Math

      Industrial Management

      Management

      Marketing

      IM/Oper & Supply Chain Mgmt

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

      Strategy & Organiz Mgmt

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Senior 105+ hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours


