ASEC 43110 - International Engagement Methods

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00.  Using established partner relationships, students will travel to and live in Cap Haitien for 8-10 days and work with Haitian partners and students to learn the principles of extension methodology, sustainable community development, and how to most effectively work with local leaders. Students will also learn the intercultural communication, entrepreneurial business planning, and cultural factors affecting community food security status while they work bi-national teams to determine how best to apply their classroom knowledge and experience.

    1.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply classroom knowledge and science technologies through extension methodologies to assist partners in addressing their challenges.
2.  Demonstrate intercultural knowledge and effectiveness to successfully communicate, understand, and interact among people with differing assumptions that exist because of ethnic and cultural differences.
3.  Demonstrate personal growth in cultural worldview and self-awareness to confidently address specific food security-related challenges and belief in their personal ability to succeed in a particular situation.
4.  Demonstrate critical thinking, intercultural curiosity, and evaluation of what is read and heard by using data and reasoning to identify and assess opportunities and develop sound responses to complex problems in a rural international village setting.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to communicate persuasively and while considering audience and purpose in a different cultural setting.
6.  Assess the partners' needs, plan, present, and assess educational programs in Haiti.
7.  Demonstrate intercultural openness, empathy, flexibility, and open-mindedness to work constructively as part of a bi-national problem-solving team.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  YDAE 43100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  ASEC 43100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


