PUBH 57800 - Healthcare Quality And Risk Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course explores how to identify quality and complexity issues affecting healthcare organization, how to develop, implement, and assess quality improvement programs and strategies in various healthcare settings. Topics include continuous quality improvement; lean management; Six Sigma; IHI Quality Improvement Program; Baldrige criteria; patient safety; and quality tools. This course is a core class for the Healthcare Quality Improvement certificate programs. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the interdependence, drivers and challenges of Quality and Information Management.
2.  Learn and practice key aspects of multiple change management models, quality improvement methodologies and tools. Complete a quality improvement project using a basic improvement methodology.
3.  Apply health care operations and quality management skills for problem solving and decision making.
4.  Integrate the professions of health care operations, quality management and health administration.
5.  Understand how health care operations and quality management affect allied health professionals and others.
6.  Develop and use new ways of thinking about health care operations and quality management jobs and professions.
7.  Analyze the impact health care operations has on quality management strategy formulation and strategy implementation.
8.  Be able to integrate health care operations and quality management with organization and performance outcomes.
9.  Understand the challenges in creating a culture of safety.
10.  Understand the structures and drivers in incentive programs to improve care.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites:

GR-PUBH 57800 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HK
51000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
PUBH
60100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



