IET 48490 - Supply Chain Management Technology Capstone I: Strategic Planning

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is the first of two integrative capstone courses for senior-level students. The focus is on how firms formulate, implement, and evaluate strategies. Teams of students will integrate program knowledge, coupled with strategic-management techniques learned, to make decisions and help chart the future of different organizations. The major responsibility of students in the capstone courses is to make objective strategic decisions and to justify them through oral and written communication. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop, evaluate, and implement business strategies needed to successfully manage supply chain operations.
2.  Describe a strategic planning model appropriate for use in supply chain operations.
3.  Apply concepts, models, and methods that are useful in strategic development.
4.  Apply analytics and techniques for strategic decision-making.
5.  Develop business evaluation and critical thinking skills.
6.  Describe the basic philosophies underlying ethical decision making.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Supply Chain & Sales Engr Tech

      Supply Chain Mgmt Tech

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  TLI 41400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  IET 41400 Minimum Grade of D-


