EDPS 26501 - The Inclusive Classroom

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to provide an overview of the characteristics of children (birth through age 21) with disabilities, causes of disability, assessment techniques, and instructional strategies. Emphasis is placed upon the development of an inclusive lesson plan based on student needs in the field experience classroom. Characteristics addressed include learning, behavioral, social-emotional, and communicative abilities and needs for students with mild and intense support needs. Issues related to cultural differences and family impact will also be addressed. A field-based component is included.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Know theoretical and historical perspectives of special education.
2.  Demonstrate knowledge of both legal (Federal and State) and ethical guidelines as it relates to education and services for individuals with disabilities including the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Section 504 and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
3.  Identify the academic, behavioral, social-emotional, cognitive, communication, and motor/physical characteristics of students with disabilities including etiologies and outcomes.
4.  Know the importance of the role of families as it relates to special education and the potential impact of language, culture, and family background have on the delivery of special education services.
5.  Know the educators' role (special education and general education) in assessing, collaborating and teaching individual academic, social, communication, daily living, and employment goals for individuals from birth to 21. 
6.  Learn strategies for creating an inclusive learning environment that includes individualized instructional strategies/supports for one or more individuals with disabilities.
7.  Learn how to select and use appropriate formal and informal assessments that minimize bias.
8.  Justify how planned strategies/supports address the learning needs of one or more individuals with disabilities.
9.  Learn technologies to support instruction for students with disabilities.



Corequisites: 

EDCI 20001

EDPS 20001

EDPS 24800


