NUR 62700 - Primary Care Of The Aging Family Preceptorship

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course assists students to develop and broaden clinical judgment and skills. Content includes the study of primary care of the aging family with acute and chronic conditions and the impact of those conditions on family members. Focus is on assessment, differential diagnosis, clinical decision-making and management, as well as patient and family education within the context of primary care. The Family Nurse Practitioner role is analyzed in the context of caring for the aging family with acute and chronic conditions. Professional issues, collaboration and scope of practice, advocacy are emphasized. Prerequisites: NUR 50700 and NUR 50200 and NUR 50300 and NUR 51600 and NUR 51100 and  NUR 51300.  Co-requisite: NUR 62200. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply epidemiology, physiology, developmental, informatics, technology, leadership, systems, quality improvement, family, community, and health promotion theories in the primary health care of adults and older adults.
2.  Use appropriate diagnostic modalities in assessing the health care needs of adults, and older adults.
3.  Synthesize clinical and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate care for acute and chronically ill adults, and older adults.
4.  Develop culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, goals, and interventions for adults and older adults with acute and chronic conditions.
5.  Use appropriate legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of commonly occurring acute and chronic physical and mental health problems in adults. and older adults.
6.  Implement theory and research based interventions to assist, adults and older adults with illness, developmental changes, psychosocial problems and environmental problems.
7.  Utilize community resources in the primary health care of individuals and aging families with acute and chronic conditions.
8.  Implement interdisciplinary collaboration and APN scope of practice while providing safe treatment to adults and older adults.
9.  Address the uniqueness of diverse populations in providing safe health care to adults and older adults.
10.  Apply leadership and coaching skills while providing culturally appropriate healthcare to adults and older adults with acute and chronic conditions where cultural, ethnic, quality of life and socioeconomic issues have been identified.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


