ME 50500 - Intermediate Heat Transfer

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Heat and mass transfer by diffusion in one-dimensional, two-dimensional, transient, periodic, and phase change systems. Convective heat transfer for external and internal flows. Similarity and integral solution methods. Heat, mass, and momentum analogies. Turbulence. Buoyancy-driven flows. Convection with phase change. Radiation exchange between surfaces and radiation transfer in absorbing-emitting media. Multimode heat transfer problems.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Indiana College Network, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Mechanical Engr 

Department: Mechanical Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      PU Fort Wayne

      IUPUI

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze and solve variable cross-section fin problems. 
2.  Apply separation of variables to steady-state and transient heat conduction problems in Cartesian and cylindrical coordinate systems. 
3.  Apply separation of variables to steady-state conduction with heat generation. 
4.  Analyze and solve boundary layer problems. 
5.  Solve internal and external flow, forced convection problems. 
6.  Solve external flow natural convection problems. 
7.  Identify different regimes of boiling and condensation. 
8.  Recognize, model, and solve radiation heat transfer problems.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-ME 31500 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ME
31500


Minimum Grade of 
B

May not be taken concurrently.
)



