MGMT 54400 - Database Management Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Covers the theory and practice of database design and usage. Students will learn the importance of data modeling concepts and how to use these effectively and how to plan and design a database, including issues such as data security and control. The following course is recommended: MGMT 29000 Programming for Business Applications or CS 15900 or CS 17700 or CNIT 17500, all with a C- or higher.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand why database management is important and what it entails.
2.  Analyze the database requirements of a business scenario and represent these requirements by means of entity-relationship (ER) diagrams.
3.  Translate an ER diagram into normalized relations for a relational DBMS.
4.  Design and implement an Oracle database.
5.  Write simple and relatively complex data retrieval and maintenance commands in the SQL language.
6.  Use Microsoft Access as a front end to a server database in Oracle.
7.  Appreciate major data administration tasks, including security control, backup and recovery, and concurrency control.  
8.  Be familiar with data warehousing and its basic conceptual design.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-BS

      Economics-CPOSTB

      Economics-CPOSTB

      Economics-MA Teaching

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-PHD

      Management-BS

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management-BSIM

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MS

      Management-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Accounting-BS

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 54400 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
38200


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May be taken concurrently.
)



