EDCI 35800 - Introduction To The Organization And Coordination Of Vocational And Technical Education

Credit Hours: 2.00 or 3.00.  An introduction to the organization and coordination of vocational and technical education. Areas of emphasis include delivery systems, funding, state plan, credentialing systems, public relations, recruitment/placement/ follow-up, youth organizations, trends, and issues. Typically offered Summer Fall Spring.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the delivery systems of vocational and technical education.
2.  List the procedures for vocational student recruitment.
3.  Identify appropriate systems for placement and follow up of former vocational students.
4.  Understand the purpose and value of job shadowing, mentoring and internship programs for vocational education.
5.  Identify and investigate current national and state legislative issues related to vocational and technical education.
6.  Develop strategies to use when communicating with legislators regarding vocational and technical education.
7.  Develop an understanding of the importance and necessity of marketing vocational and technical education program.
8.  Develop a marketing plan for a vocational and technical education program.
9.  Identity current trends/issues in vocational and technical education that will impact Vocational Education in 2000 and beyond.
10.  Understand the effect of current trends on vocational education and their relationship to general education.
11.  Recognize methods of evaluation of vocational and technical education programs.
12.  Understand the national, state, and local standards of measures currently being imposed on vocational and technical education and new initiatives.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDCI 24200 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


