EDPS 60700 - Mixed Methods Research Designs And Applications

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides an overview of mixed methods research designs within social science and educational research. The focus of the course will emphasize the philosophical pragmatism embedded in enacting mixed methods research. Further, the course will demonstrate the utility and plausibility of integrating quantitative and qualitative data into a single study. This demonstration will be accomplished through reviewing the historical context of qualitative and quantitative research in social sciences and students' application of mixed methods research within their respective fields of study. Prerequisites: EDPS 53300, EDPS 55600, and EDPS 55700 and an introductory qualitative methods course (one of COM 58500, EDCI 61500, SOC 68600). Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the historical context of mixed methods research with specific attention to the epistemological tenets of pragmatic research.
2.  Recognize the use of mixed methods as researchers in your discipline implement these designs.
3.  Describe the various mixed methods designs and explain how they are unique with respect to the timing of data collection, the prioritization (or lack thereof) of the phases in a mixed methods study, and the means of integrating data.
4.  Comprehend the role of rigor in all phases of mixed methods research and critically digest mixed methods articles in the literature.
5.  Develop skills to plan and conduct a mixed methods study in addition to writing a mixed methods study in the space limitations of academic journals.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


