EDCI 53300 - Teaching And Learning Number And Operations.

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to provide opportunities for mathematics educators to develop understanding of teaching and learning in the domain of number and operation. Central to this work is the construction of models of learners' understanding of number and operation and the use of those models to build and select curriculum. While curricular efforts have historically taken as central a formal view of mathematics and its construction, more recently curriculum has been written to engage learners and to build from knowledge of learner's understanding. In this course we will develop models of learner's understandings of different facets of number and operation and then use those models and our emerging understanding of curriculum to explore challenges in teaching and learning. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer



    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop models of learner's understandings of number and operation.
2.  Use models of learner's understandings of number and operation to design and select appropriate and productive learning opportunities.
3.  Develop knowledge of key curricular development in mathematics education in the United States.
4.  Associate teaching and curriculum with understandings of number and operation they might generate.
5.  Use technology to support the development of ideas in number and operation.
6.  Synthesize existing research to support inquiry in the teaching and learning of number operation.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


