PSY 41800 - Understanding Autism

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (HDFS 41800, SLHS 41800) This course will explore the etiology, neuroscience, diagnosis, and treatment of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Approached from a multi-disciplinary perspective this course brings together gene, brain, and behavioral sciences with the aim of developing a better understanding of autism. The course will begin with an overview of ASD as a complex behavioral phenotype. This will include discussion of the history ASD and the expansion of the diagnostic criteria associated with the disorder. This introduction will be followed by several classes in which we will examine some of the key domains of impairment in ASD:  reciprocal social interaction, language and communication, and restricted and repetitive behaviors. We will also consider the deficits associate with, but not defining of ASD, and examine co-morbid conditions frequently present in individuals with ASD. We will then address the topics of brain architecture, neurochemistry, and genetics and gene expression, all of which we will attempt to relate back to the behavioral features of autism. We will end the course with a review of treatment practices and their efficacy and an examination of impact of ASD on the family and society. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Psychological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and explain the behavioral characteristics used to diagnose ASD.
2.  Describe and explain the strategies and symptoms used in the early identification of ASD.
3.  Describe and explain the current theoretical perspectives about the causes of ASD and the increasing prevalence of the disorder.
4.  Describe and explain the current scientific knowledge on the genetic and neurobiological underpinnings of ASD and how these are related to behavioral symptoms.
5.  Describe and explain the range of available evidence-based and non-evidenced-based interventions for ASD.
6.  Critically evaluate the empirical research findings as well as media reports related to ASD.



