CNIT 34600 - Wireless Networks

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course introduces wireless networking. Topics include fundamental wireless communication concepts, wireless local area networks (LANs), and cellular systems. Wireless specific protocol elements are addressed in typical application environments. Data communications in multiple wireless environments are emphasized. In the laboratory section, students implement wireless solutions and integrate them into wired LAN environments.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand basic wireless data and telecommunications terminology and jargon.
2.  Understand the basic underpinnings of important wireless technology, security, and management issues.
3.  Implement 802.11 networks in multiple different scenarios.
4.  Conduct successful site surveys with different 802.11 equipment and standards.
5.  Discuss wireless data and telecommunication issues with professionals in an informed and intelligent manner.
6.  Know how and where to seek further information concerning more advanced topics not covered in this class without feeling overwhelmed.
7.  Formulate a checklist regarding existing and/or new wireless data/telecommunication systems and infrastructure.
8.  Demonstrate an understanding of medium characteristics, modulation and multiplexing techniques, physical layer framing structures used in wireless networks.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Info Tech-BS


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  CNIT 24000 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CNIT 34400 Minimum Grade of C-) and Undergraduate level  CNIT 24200 Minimum Grade of C-


