NUR 69050 - Implementing Theory In Healthcare Research

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Historical and contemporary social, ethical, educational, scientific, and professional influences on the development of theoretical knowledge in nursing and health research are analyzed.  Various methods of theory development are reviewed. Selected biological/physiological, behavioral, and health service theories that form the basis of nursing science are critically evaluated. Skills needed for theory analysis and theory development are emphasized. The role of theoretical knowledge to innovation in nursing science and healthcare is presented. Scientific bridges between theoretical frameworks and research methods are appraised. Selected nursing and healthcare scientists communicate the theoretical aspects of their programs of research with an emphasis on collaboration between disciplines. Admission to the Nursing PhD program or instructor permission. This is one of the first courses taken by PhD students and may be open to graduate students outside the School of Nursing with permission from the instructor. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge of theory in nurse scientists' scholarly activities.
2.  Critique the application of theoretical concepts and relationship statements in past research designs and methods.
3.  Understand the potential of theory to provide innovation in healthcare practice, education and research.
4.  Apply theory, models and conceptual frameworks to research interests.
5.  Synthesize literature to critique theory, identify conceptual patterns across the literature, or provide an in-depth concept analysis.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


