BME 55600 - Introduction To Clinical Medicine For Engineering Solutions

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course introduces students to the physiology and medicine underlying major human diseases likely to become research targets in biomedical engineering and medical device development.  It encourages students to upgrade research target selection to include projects that promise to improve patient care, with a major emphasis on pathophysiology and disease mechanisms. The information and intellectual approach offered will help students recognize needs for engineering solutions to current challenges in medicine. The course also previews the intellectual content of medical school, including rigor and level of detail, for engineering students considering designing medical solutions or translational engineering research as a career, emphasizing the key "11-points" necessary for practical understanding of any disease: definition of the condition, causes, functional abnormalities, structural abnormalities, early signs, history and physical findings, differential diagnosis, special studies (lab, imaging, etc.), treatment strategy, specific steps of treatment, and follow up, as well as current clinical needs for innovation and research opportunities for the future. To avoid possible redundancy with the Weldon School undergraduate curriculum, focal areas of the course include topics and body systems not covered in BME 25600, including infectious diseases, cardiopulmonary diseases, hematology-oncology, and gastrointestinal diseases.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the pathogenesis of selected diseases, including causes, abnormal anatomy, and abnormal physiology.
2.  Describe the diagnosis of selected diseases, including the history, physical findings, laboratory workup, imaging, and special procedures.
3.  Describe the treatment for selected diseases, including strategy, specific steps, drugs, surgery, and follow-up.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


