MGMT 56600 - Global Supply Chain Management

Credit Hours: 2.00.   This course will integrate issues from marketing (channels of distribution), logistics, and operations management to develop a broad understanding of a supply chain in a global context. Students will learn how different factors, including exchange rate risk, custom duty and trading policies, geographic distribution of resources and demand, availability and reliability of local supplier, and characteristics of consumer, affect the design and execution of global supply chain strategies.  Prerequisites: Students are expected to have taken a basic course on operations (such as the masters core class MGMT 66000: Introduction to Operations Management) and a basic course on supply chain management (such as the masters elective MGMT 66400: Supply Chain Management). Exposure to a course on optimization is also preferred, but not required. The course requires logical and analytical thinking.  Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Train the students to understand the issues in managing a global supply chain and to manage them and optimize their performance.  It requires critical thinking through the participation of games, case discussions, and presentation of case assignments.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 56600 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
66000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
MGMT
66400


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



