EDCI 53200 - STEM Goes Rural Seminar I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An examination of current problems, issues, research, and practice related to the teaching of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects in rural school settings. Permission of Department required.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the range of developmental characteristics of adolescence including interpersonal, cultural, and societal contexts and uses this knowledge to facilitate student learning.
2. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the challenges young adults face and provides them with the skills and opportunities to be reflective in making responsible decisions.
3. The teacher of adolescents and young adults has an understanding of the characteristics of high schools and incorporates this knowledge into the design of educational programs which reflect sound principles of teaching and learning.
4. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the interdisciplinary nature of high school curriculum and relates his/her subject matter to foster well-rounded student learning.
5. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the teaching/learning research base and employs a variety of instructional strategies, resources, and technologies which advance the learner into high level thinking skills.
6. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the impact of family structure and home life on educational development and uses this knowledge to facilitate and support the education of the young adult.
7. The teacher of adolescents and young adults understands the importance of the community in the education of young adult and works with resource persons and community groups to promote student learning and citizenship.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


