AGRY 45000 - Soil Conservation and Water Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (NRES 45000) Principles of soil conservation with emphasis on control of soil erosion by wind and water; impact of soil management decisions on environment; soil-water-plant relations, includes agronomic aspects of water management for both irrigation and drainage.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agronomy 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate proficiency in their chosen discipline that incorporates knowledge, skills, technology, and professional conduct.
2.  Demonstrate use of the scientific method to identify problems, formulate and test hypotheses, conduct experiments and analyze data, and derive conclusions.
3.  Demonstrate critical thinking by using data and reasoning to develop sound responses to complex problems.
4.  Demonstrate the ability to write and speak with effectiveness while considering audience and purpose.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to work effectively as part of a problem-solving team.
6.  Demonstrate knowledge of a range of cultures and an understanding of human values and points of view of other than their own. 
7.  Demonstrate ability to apply social, economic, political, and environmental principles to living in a global community.
8.  Demonstrate awareness of civic responsibility to community and society at large.
9.  Demonstrate skills necessary for lifelong learning.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  AGRY 25500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  NRES 25500 Minimum Grade of D-) or Undergraduate level  AGRY 27000 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  NRES 25500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  AGRY 25500 Minimum Grade of D-)


