MGMT 63410 - Communications For Accountants

Credit Hours: 2.00. Accountants spend much of their time designing and writing reports, memos, etc. and explaining those communications to others. They communicate regularly with external investors and creditors, regulators, clients and fellow professionals. This course is designed to help accounting students prepare for their professional careers by helping them develop their written and oral communication skills. The course begins with an overview of the writing process and then moves to document organization and design and how to write with conciseness and clarity. The last half of the course focuses on specific forms of written communication (e.g., letters, memos, reports, email, essays on professional exams) and oral presentations. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Become familiar with the ethical issues that individuals face in organizations: Students will be able to demonstrate an understanding of ethical communication as it relates to accounting-related issues. 
2.  Develop current business technologies and use common business technology and software in essential tasks: Students will study the appropriate and professional use of social media and electronic and written communication mediums in a business setting. 
3.  Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills through class assignments and the writing and presentation of a team paper.  
4.  Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environment: Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present a report on a pre-specifies accounting topic. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Degrees:      

      Master of Science

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Accounting


