ASEC 43100 - Planning For International Engagement Methods

Credit Hours: 1.00.  A team-based laboratory course for students who seek experience working with international partners to plan and conduct quality service-learning projects. Using established partner relationships, students will work with international partners to address hands-on, real-world, identified challenges to learn the principles of extension methodology and sustainable community development by integrating their discipline knowledge and technical skills from previous courses. Students will also learn the intercultural communication, market analysis, project design and planning, entrepreneurial business planning for micro-credit loans and business ventures, and cultural factors affecting community food security while they work in bi-national teams to determine how best to apply their classroom knowledge and experience to respond to partners' needs and local resource constraints.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division, Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply classroom knowledge and science technologies through extension methodologies to assist partners in addressing their economic and social challenges.
2.  Demonstrate intercultural knowledge and effectiveness to successfully communicate, understand, and interact among people with differing assumptions that exist because of ethnic and cultural differences.
3.  Demonstrate critical thinking and emotional intelligence in evaluation of what is read and heard by using data and reasoning to identify and assess opportunities and develop sound responses to complex problems in a rural international village setting.
4.  Demonstrate the ability to communicate persuasively and while considering audience and purpose in a different cultural setting.
5.  Assess the partners' needs, plan, present, and assess educational programs in Haiti.
6.  Demonstrate the ability to work constructively as part of a bi-national problem-solving team.



