ENGT 50700 - Fundamentals Of Collaborative Leadership And Agile Strategy For Engineering Technology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  ENGT 50700 course will provide students with a foundation in collaborative leadership and agile strategy. The course brings together theories and insights from a variety of disciplines including engineering, management, psychology, and social science. Increasingly manufacturing management is being called upon to apply their technical skills in collaborative environments that cut across organizational units and inter-organizational boundaries. Understanding how to design and guide collaborations and apply agile approaches for meeting strategic objectives is an important skill-set and knowledge-base in the 21st Century economy, defined more by open networks than the ridged hierarchies of the past. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: School of Engineering Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Clearly articulate the elements needed to create and maintain safe spaces for deep focused conversations.
2.  Frame strategic conversations around appreciative questions.
3.  Assist others in identifying hidden assets.
4.  Surface new strategic opportunities by linking and leveraging assets.
5.  Prioritize strategic opportunities using the criteria of impact and ease of implementation.
6.  Convert strategic opportunities to strategic outcomes with measurable objectives.
7.  Define strategic pathways with pathfinder objects and guideposts.
8.  Create shared strategic action plans.
9.  Design short feedback loops.
10.  Nudge, connect, and relentlessly prompt ongoing collaboration.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


