EDPS 50800 - Cultural And Linguistic Diversity In Special Education Programs

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Living in a diverse society provides special education teachers and support personnel the opportunity to encounter a wide array of cultures in their educational settings. The course, designed for special education stakeholders (i.e., teachers, staff, support personnel, administrators), considers issues of human diversity, broadly defined to include ability, ethnicity, culture, gender identity, linguistic background, race, religion, socioeconomic status, and sexual orientation. This course challenges biased assumptions that influence the provision of educational services, and examines issues related to promotion equal learning opportunities in the classroom and other education settings. It is designed to facilitate student examination of how diversity and diverse experiences shape systems that affect individuals, families, communities, and society. It allows students to explore their own cultures and the biases and internalized messages about those who are different from themselves. Students will be introduced to specific approaches to practice, and frameworks for equity, advocacy, and empowerment to support students who receive special education and/or applied behavior analysis (ABA) service, as well as their families. The course also includes information and discussion topics pertaining to the culturo-behavior science (CBS) specialization of the Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABAI) and to interpersonal communication skills to include speaking, listening, reading, and writing - and their effect on students and families. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a conscious awareness and working knowledge of diverse populations within education settings. 
2.  Demonstrate the knowledge to create safe, inclusive, culturally responsive learning environments and classroom management systems.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to identify funds of knowledge and how they interact to form meaningful relationships with students and families.
4.  Engage with others around identity and difference, and apply self-awareness to identify and manage the influence of personal biases and values in working in diverse settings.
5.  Analyze and interpret historical and contemporary dynamics of privilege and oppression in society that lead to inequalities in access to educational resources.
6.  Analyze, evaluate, and propose solutions to contemporary social problems found in schools, school districts, and ABA settings (E.g., culturally responsive PB IS, restorative justice, etc.
7.  Implement strategies that encourage students' to value their own heritage; value richness of cultural diversity and commonality; respect diverse cultural groups; and reduce stereotyping.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Appl Behav Analysis Accel Prof

      Applied Behavior Analysis

      Special Education


