CPB 46400 - Clinical Toxicology For Veterinary Technology

Credit Hours: 2.00.  The common toxicants and advanced topics on the drugs most commonly encountered in veterinary medicine. Emphasis is on mechanisms, indications, contraindications, and proper applications and handling of these drugs. Permission of department required.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Comparative Pathobiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Appropriately use and understand common terminology used in toxicology and clinical toxicology.
2.  Describe the medical rationale and specific drugs used as emetics, cathartics, and other compounds used to decrease animal exposure to ingested toxicants.
3.  Ask the appropriate questions during a history to help better identify toxicosis cases and to identify potential sources for intoxication.
4.  Describe the mechanism of action for commonly encountered drug toxicants, herbal/diet supplement intoxications, household toxicants, insecticides, rodenticides, herbicides, toxic plants, and toxic animal envenomation. 
5.  Describe the general presenting clinical appearance and any key clinical signs characteristic of common veterinary toxicants 
6.  Describe the diagnostics and treatment protocols used for common veterinary toxicants.
7.  Identify means by which clients/animal owners can reduce the risk of intoxicant of animals by toxicants.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  VM 39000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  VM 41001 Minimum Grade of D-


