BMS 81000 - Foundations In Basic Medical Sciences

Credit Hours: 1.50.  The overall objective of this course is to provide the incoming first year DVM students the basic, foundational science principles upon which they will base study of the DVM curriculum. Emphasis is upon basic principles and fundamental concepts of: animal body organization and terminology; cellular and whole body metabolism; macromolecules, membranes, transport, biosynthetic processes, cellular communication/signal transduction, cell cycle and growth regulation, gene expression and embryonic development.

    0.000 OR     1.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Know the terms of position and orientation of the animal body.
2.  Know basic principles of cellular and whole body metabolism, including anabolism, catabolism and homeostasis.
3.  Know the properties and composition of key cellular molecules.
4.  Know the structure and function of biological membranes, mechanisms of cellular transport and generation of action potential.
5.  Know the mechanisms of cellular communication and signal transduction, including types of secreted signals, structure/function of various receptors, and key mechanisms by which the signal elicits a cellular response.
6.  Know the growth factor signaling and the cell cycle; the terms oncogene and tumor suppressor.
7.  Know the basic principles of transcription, organization of the animal genome, epigenetic regulation, and molecular mechanisms involved in embryonic development.
8.  Know the basic stages of embryogenesis, and genesis of four basic tissues.
9.  Know the identify by light and electron microscopy key components of animal cell structure, epithelial cell modifications, and structures/organs of the 10 mm embryo.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


