AD 52200 - Interaction Design Evaluation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course builds a foundation for interaction designers to conduct evaluation research. Students start from analyzing evaluation cases on interactive designs and systems to employing evaluation in design projects using quantitative, qualitative, or mixed methods of inquiry.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Patti & Rusty Rueff Schl DAP 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Identify the need, justification, and goal of conducting an evaluation.
2. Understand systematic knowledge, logical-deductive processes and various research types, and recognize causes & effects, systematic bias and measurement/observation errors in research.
3. Be familiar with different kinds of qualitative and quantitative research methods and how they differ from each other.  Build up reliable knowledge for them.
4. Understand the structure of paradigms, theories, concepts, hypotheses, constructs, variables and data.
5. Be familiar with the techniques such as observation, interviews, contamination, exogenous effects, and unobtrusive measures.
6. Be able to organize quantitative and qualitative data, and use analysis software such as SPSS and ALTAS.ti to find patterns.
7. Present the evaluation outcomes, and try to organize and write research papers based on the analysis.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Design Studies-BA

      Visual Arts-BFA

      Art Studies-BA

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-AD 51200 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
AD
51200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



