NRES 41000 - Research In Natural Resources And Environmental Science

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00. Supervised individual research. NRES 41000 provides the opportunity to participate in independent undergraduate research with the goal of learning how to design, execute, and report research. Students will properly and permanently record their information in a timely fashion and learn how to examine, analyze, and interpret their results. One credit hour corresponds to one how of laboratory preparation and three hours of laboratory research. Total credits in NRES 41000 and NRES 41100 may not exceed six credits. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: College of Agriculture Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop a basic understanding of plant, soil, environment, and climate principles.
2.  Become capable in the implementation of strategies, which optimize the profitability, productivity, sustainability, and environmental stewardship as concurrently achievable goals.
3.  Communicate effectively using electronic media.
4.  Work effectively in a team situation either as leader or participant.
5.  Possess and demonstrate high standards of achievement.
6.  Able to define a problem (given a situation) identify the resources needed to solve it and their repositories and propose and evaluate different solutions based on the resources of the client.
7.  Analyze and interpret simple research data with an understanding of basic statistical principles such as the mean, SE, F ration, LSD, and significance levels. Calculate and interpret a simple ANOVA, linear regression, and correlation.
8.  Perform mathematical calculations appropriate to the profession, and interpret graphical and tabular information.




