EPCS 30200 - Junior Participation In EPICS

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Continuation of EPCS courses (see EPCS 10100).  The responsibilities of juniors include working with the seniors in the planning and organization of the project, contributing to the design process, problem solving by contributing expertise from their discipline, meeting with the customer, and the mentorship of sophomores and freshmen.  EPCS 30200 is offered for two credits.  The EPICS procedures manual provides information on expected relative workload for EPCS 30100 and EPCS 30200 students.  May not be taken concurrently with EPCS 30100.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: Engr Prog In Community Service 


Course Attributes: M Professional Electives, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      IUPUI

      West Lafayette

      Columbus


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Able to apply material from their discipline to the design of community-based projects.
2.  Understand design as a start-to-finish process.
3.  Able to identify and acquire new knowledge as a part of the problem-solving/design process.
4.  Aware of the customer.
5.  Able to function on multidisciplinary teams and an appreciation for the contributions from individuals from multiple disciplines.
6.  Able to communicate effectively with audiences with widely-varying backgrounds.
7.  Aware of professional ethics and responsibility.
8.  Appreciate the role that their discipline can play in social contexts.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours


