EDPS 55700 - Introduction To Quantitative Data Analysis Methods In Education II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This online course is the second quantitative data analysis methods sequences within the college of education. This course is specially designed to enhance students' quantitative reasoning and skills through discussions of issues in educational data and authentic data analysis experiences of a variety of education data. The topics to be covered in this course include simple/multiple linear regression, different types of group comparison methods (including n-way ANOVA, ANCOVA, Repeated-measures ANOVA, and Mixed ANOVA). The course is specifically designed: 1) to understand how the quantitative methods covered in the course can be used appropriately to address proposed research questions in education, and 2) to interpret quantitative results meaningfully for a given context. It is expected that all students who enroll in this course have completed at least one semester of introductory statistics course (e.g. STAT 50100 or equivalent.) Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the common quantitative techniques and terminology used in studies that are presented in the popular press and education related journal.
2.  Use and understand the principal numeric and graphical techniques to display and summarize education and social science related data.
3.  Discuss common issues in analysis and interpretation of educational/social science data.
4.  Design a research study, use a statistical software package to analyze the data generated from the research study, and appropriately interpret the results and report the conclusions of the study.
5.  Expand their quantitative data analysis skills by taking advanced quantitative methods courses.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


