NUR 22301 - Foundations Of Research And Evidence-Based Practice

Credit Hours: 3.00. Students gain foundational competencies for evidence-based practice (EBP), including computer literacy, information literacy, and professional communication. Students learn the principles of research process and identify strengths and limitations of research articles in relation to EBP in nursing and healthcare. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Information Literacy, UC-Information Literacy 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the principles of research and the process of EBP in relation to nursing and healthcare.
2.  Use information and information technologies ethically, legally, and proficiently to Information Literacy Competency Standards for Higher Education.
3.  Explain the purpose and methodology of various types of quantitative and qualitative research designs in nursing and healthcare.
4.  Evaluate the quality of research evidence to determine scientific merit, strengths and limitations relevant to clinical practice. 
5.  Examine economic, legal and ethical issues related to conducting research.
 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ENGL 10100 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10200 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10300 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10400 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10500 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10600 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENG W1310 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  HONR 19903 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  ENGL 10800 Minimum Grade of C


