BIOL 24100 - Biology IV: Genetics And Molecular Biology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introduction to the principles of classical genetics and to molecular genetics. Topics covered are transmission of the genetic material (both in eukaryotes and prokaryotes); changes in the genetic material, structure, and function of the genetic material; and the manipulation of genetic material (recombinant DNA technology).

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories. 
2.  Students will understand the role of macromolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, protein translation, and metabolism. 
3.  Students will understand the role of evolution of creating and modifying the macromolecular components of the cell, and in creating biological complexity and variability. 
4.  Graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and higher level. 
5.  Students who complete the CMB BS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions. 
6.  Students who complete the CMB BS program will have a broad understanding of the principles governing the development of multi-cellular animals and plants.  
7.  Students will exhibit proficiency in population and quantitative genetics. 
8.  Students will demonstrate an understanding of concepts and theories of genetics. 
9.  Students will demonstrate an understanding of laboratory skills used in genetics. 
10.  Students will exhibit proficiency in the physiology, biochemistry, and genetics of bacteria including diversity, metabolism, and gene expression regulation as well as key metabolic control mechanisms. 




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 13600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D-)


