FNR 52700 - Ecotoxicology

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course covers theoretical and applied approaches to the science of ecotoxicology, including application of the tools and procedures used to understand toxicant fate and effects in free-ranging animals and ecosystems. Students are expected to be knowledgeable in chemistry, biology, and animal physiology. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Forestry and Natural Resources 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Review of basic ecotoxicological principles.
2.  Know the various types, sources and environmental fate and effects of contaminants.
3.  Know the modes of toxicant uptake, transformation, storage and depuration.
4.  Know the dose/concentration-response, exposure routes.
5.  Know the factors that influence toxicity.
6.  Know the contaminant distribution, bioaccumulation, and biomagnifications.
7.  Know the biomarkers of exposure and effects: Molecular to ecosystem-levels.
8.  Know the basic principles in aquatic toxicity testing.
9.  Know the common toxicity assays using invertebrates, fish, amphibians, birds, and mammals (in vitro, in vivo, mesocosms, and in situ bioassays).
10.  Know the field case studies: Complex effluents (sewage and paper mills); Persistent Bioaccumulative Toxicants (PCBs, PAHs, dioxins); Endocrine disrupting chemicals; Heavy metals; Nutrients and pathogens.
11.	Statistical analyses of toxicity data.
12.	Introduction to ecological risk assessment.




Prerequisites:

GR-FNR 52700 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
11000


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Rule: 1.: CHM 11100 or 11500  for a total of 1 conditions
)

CHM
11100


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May not be taken concurrently.

CHM
11500


Minimum Grade of 
C-

May not be taken concurrently.
End of rule 1.



