MGMT 63500 - Accounting Information Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00. Accounting information Systems is a course designed to provide students with a solid background in the information systems that accountants use. Topics include, but are not limited to, input, processing and output devices, data communications and networks, document and system flowcharts, organizing and manipulating data in databases, producing reports and forms, popular accounting software, enterprise-wide information systems, security, privacy and ethics for accounting information, and information technology auditing. The course will advance students' abilities in the following areas.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Develop analytical and quantitative skills to analyze and formulate business decisions: Students will be able to demonstrate their ability to design and use information systems, build models, design and complete data-mining tasks, and evaluate internal control systems. 
2. Develop current technologies and use common business technology and software in essential tasks: Students will be able to demonstrate their ability to use and evaluate popular accounting software and enterprise-wide software. They will also be able to incorporate XBRL into financial reports and perform complex tasks using spreadsheets. Students will demonstrate their ability to effectively use PowerPoint in class presentations. 
3. Students will develop effective written and oral communication skills: Students will be able to demonstrate effective oral and written communication skills through class participation and the writing and presentation of team projects. 
4. Develop the leadership and teamwork skills to function effectively in a diverse cross-functional environment:  Students will demonstrate their leadership and teamwork skills by effectively working as a team to produce and present team projects. 
5. Achieve depth of understanding and applications of financial reporting. Student will demonstrate their understanding of accounting systems through team projects that require hands-on experience with accounting software. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-MS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Degrees:      

      Master of Science


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 63500 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
35000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



