ECON 42200 - Public Finance And Taxation

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines the role of government in market economies. The aim of the course is to provide an understanding of the reasons for government intervention in the economy and how individuals and firms respond to taxation and other government actions and how to evaluate the benefits of public programs. For example, what effects do taxes have on incentives to work, save, and invest? Emphasis is placed on current U.S. policy issues including Social Security, health care, education, environmental regulation, welfare programs, and tax reform.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: S General Education, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate a basic understanding of public economics, including public finance and welfare issues and the role of government in market economics. 
2.  Understand the perspective provided by economic analysis in public policy issues including environmental policy , Social Security, education policy, welfare programs, and taxation. 
3.  Identify insights public economics provides concerning the economic efficiency and equity effects of various government policies.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Management-BSIM

      Economics-BS

      Management-BS

      Accounting-BS

      Economics-BA


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  ECON 25100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1030 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2010 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  ECON 25200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E1040 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  ECON E2020 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 22300 Minimum Grade of C-)


