PHIL 20700 - Ethics For Technology, Engineering, And Design

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is designed to increase your understanding of professional and ethical responsibilities in national, international and cross-cultural environments, helping you to anticipate, understand, and navigate issues that will likely arise in your working life as an engineer or designer. The focus of the course is on developing the ability to apply a general ethical framework to new and unique situations, including those arising from the global cultural context of modern engineering. The course covers how this ethical framework should be constituted, and provides practice in applying this framework to specific, concrete cases. Together, these components work toward your development as a better engineer and more responsible global citizen. The readings, case studies and exercises are geared towards the development of a well-researched original case study that you will present to the class, which is informed by your past experiences and future aspirations related to engineering. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop an understanding of professional and ethical responsibilities in technology, engineering, and design (TED).
2.  Understand and assess ethical problems in TED contexts.
3.  Analyze and assess the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts.
4.  Understand the effects of technological engineering and design solutions in different cultural environments.
5.  Apply abstract ethical frameworks to concrete situations.
6.  Develop critical thinking skills.
7.  Develop and deploy analytical skills in ethical contexts.
8.  Develop skills in analytical writing and in clear and precise oral communication.



