HSCI 42000 - Applied Anatomy For Medicine

Credit Hours: 4.00.  With a focus on preparing students to be practitioners of health sciences, Applied Anatomy for Medicine (HSCI 42000) will build upon the foundational knowledge of form and function obtained in prerequisite courses through enhancement of the relationship between bony structures, musculature, innervation, vascular perfusion, and interconnectedness with respect to human health.  The significance of regional anatomy and important anatomical landmarks from a clinical perspective will be learned.  The incorporation of student driven dissection will promote a more comprehensive understanding of the correlation between structure, function, dysfunction and disease signalments.  The integration of clinical application and case study investigation will facilitate the transition from learner to practitioner.  Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the bones, associated bony prominences, muscles, innervation, action and vascular perfusion.
2.  Identify and demonstrate the relationship between superficial and deep structures including dermatome maps.
3.  Identify regional anatomy and important clinical landmarks, and aid in deciphering imaging diagnostics.
4.  Identify anatomical design both in health as well as modifications due to disease.
5.  Understand the critical role anatomical design plays in the maintenance of health, development and manifestation of disease, diagnostic assessment, intervention and treatment.





Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Envr Health Science

      Health Science PreProfessional

      Medical Laboratory Sciences

      Occupational Health Science

      Radiological Health Sciences

      Radiological Health Pre-MP


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BIOL 20400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30200 Minimum Grade of D-


