HK 50000 - Introduction To Athletic Training Practice

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course covering the roles and responsibilities of an athletic trainer as well as the history, governance structure, and regulation of the athletic training profession. Instruction and practical application of taping, wrapping, bracing techniques, and protective equipment is also included. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and evaluate the role of the NATA, BOC, CAATE, Foundation, and state practice acts in athletic training governance and practice regulation.
2.  Compare and differentiate the role of a certified athletic trainer and other professionals in the health care of patients and in the broader health care system.
3.  Describe and critique safe athletic training practices (eg. OSHA standards).
4.  Evaluate the fundamental role of evidence-based practice as it relates to athletic training and its use in the clinical decision making process.
5.  Explain the theoretical foundation of clinical outcomes assessment (eg, disablement, health related quality of life) and apply common methods of outcomes assessment in athletic training clinical practice (generic, disease-specific, region-specific, and dimension-specific outcomes
instruments).
6.  Analyze mechanisms of injury/etiology, recognition, and treatment associated with common injuries and illnesses.
7.  Develop skills in adhesive taping and acute injury management.
8.  Develop skills in protective pad fabrication and implementation.
9.  Develop technical skills in the appropriate management of athletic medical emergencies.
10.  Have a working understanding of athletic and medical protective equipment/materials and be able to evaluate patient needs in athletic medical situations.
11.  Construct a preparticipation examination as it pertain to the prevention of injuries.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


