THTR 53300 - Acting Technique

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Intensive study of the internal and external elements of acting through the use of improvisational principles within the context of scene study. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Patti & Rusty Rueff Schl DAP 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 2 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate the ability to "live truthfully under an imaginary circumstance" within both exercise and scene work.
2.  Listen and respond to your partner in a truthful, organic, open and spontaneous manner.
3.  Invent imaginary circumstances and relationships in the Independent Activity exercise.
4.  Apply the above principles to scripted material.
5.  Articulate current information in the professional theatre.
6.  Access and evoke vivid, truthful emotion, and express this emotion through the reality of doing and the active pursuit of objectives.
7.  Recognize and distinguish between authentic and inauthentic emotions and behavior in yourself.
8.  Practice and maintain spontaneity in planned and rehearsed performances of scene work, within the context of the given circumstances of the script.
9.  Identify significant movements and philosophies in the history of actor training, and their important teachers.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-THTR 43300 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
THTR
43300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



