BIOL 42000 - Eukaryotic Cell Biology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Composition, structure, regulation, and growth of eukaryotic cells.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
 1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
 2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution,
      biological techniques, data collections and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
 3.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of sicence on society.
 4.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking. These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems,
      interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
 5.  Students demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
 6.  Students will understand how biochemistry contributes to improvements in human health, industry, and broader scientific understanding.
 7.  Macromolecules: Students will  be familar with the biogenesis, structure, and chemistry of the basic types of macromolecules important in 
      cells: nucleic acids, proteins, and membranes, and with the organic and inorganic molecules important in cellular metabolism.
 8.  Cellular Processes: Students will understand the role of maacrmolecules in cellular processes such as DNA replication, RNA transcription, 
      protein translation, and metabolism.
 9.  Scope: graduates will understand the chemical and physical principles that govern biochemical and physiological proceses.
10. Scope: graduates will understand how chemical and biochemical processes relate to biological function at the molecular, cellular,
      organismal, and higher levels.
11. Students who complete the CMD BS program will have a broad understanding of the compositions and formations of cellular structures, the
      molecular basis underlying cellular processes, and the links between diseases and aberrant gene functions.



Prerequisites: 

 (   (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BIOL 24100 Minimum Grade of D-) or (Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BME 20100 Minimum Grade of D-)   ) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 25500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 25700 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 26100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 26505 Minimum Grade of D-)


