MGMT 68700 - Design For Instincts: Social Networks and Engagements

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00.  This course will build on design thinking and game design techniques to develop process, policies, and/or products that appeal to human instincts. We will cover ideas that provide insights into, for example, new product development, entrepreneurship or designing HR policies. To name a few examples of projects we will discuss, SAP's points-based system to encourage carpooling that helps the company save on large gas expenses; at challenge.gov, the Whitehouse encourages innovative solutions through crowdsourcing; and at companies like Google, and Best-Buy, employees participate in information assimilation games called prediction markets providing information to senior managers about ongoing projects. In this course, you will examine the mechanisms behind designing for human instincts and thereby developing an understanding of their effective use in the modern firm. Gamification is one form of design for human instincts. In order for any design to be effective, it should involve clearly defined strategies and well managed execution. To identify effective strategies, and metrics for the application of techniques to business, this course will draw upon interdisciplinary source material as well as real-world case studies. It will also identify a number of significant pitfalls to techniques, as well as notable legal and ethical issues, and the problems with implementing radical change in established firms. As a part of this class, you will be designing, playing, and evaluating various games. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.


    1.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Design and present as a part of the project engagements that take into consideration human instincts and biases.
2.  Understand and identify human instincts and biases that are useful for design considerations.
3.  Break apart engagements into three parts:  mechanics, dynamics, and aesthetics.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


