HIST 33400 - Science And Society In Western Civilization II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course considers Western science and society from the time of Newton to the present. Beginning with Copernicus to Newton, topics next include biological classification, modern chemistry, and the onset of the industrial revolution. For the nineteenth century the course stresses the maturation of biology. Darwinian evolution, the dynamic synthesis and electromagnetic studies, and the second industrial revolution. In the twentieth century, the course covers modern physics, the life sciences, the understanding of the universe, and the interaction between pure and applied science. The course concludes with some of the modern social and political problems which science caused by its success.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: History 


Course Attributes: S General Education, GTC-Humanistic-Artistic, GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Humanities, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine, interpret, and explain how personal, political, cultural economic, and social experiences and/or structures shaped the history of science and society.
2.  Analyze data using historical methodologies to evaluate causal arguments and analyze assertions, assumptions, and explanatory evidence related to the history of science and society.
3.  Investigate the diversity of human experience within Western culture, considering, for example, ethnicity, gender, language, race, religion, sexual orientation, age, culture, disability, and social class, and appreciate the contribution of different social groups in science and society.
4.  Identify and explain the major themes of the history of science and write about the role of science in society and social implications of science.



