VCS 80310 - Veterinary Skills And Competencies V

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to allow students to develop competence in communication, husbandry, diagnostic, and therapeutic skills of veterinary medicine and surgery. In addition, instruction will be delivered in the areas of veterinary business, professionalism and health professional wellness. Instruction will be provided by online modules, hands-on laboratories using models, cadavers, and live animals, as well as, self-paced training in the veterinary skills lab. Students will also complete observational assignments and treatment duties in the Veterinary Teaching Hospital. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Laboratory 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate effective compassionate communication with clients about euthanasia.
2.  Demonstrate ability to pass nasoesophageal, nasogastric, orogastric, and esophageal feeders in various species.
3.  Demonstrate ability to safely perform enteral feeding with a syringe and syringe pump.
4.  Demonstrate ability to perform equine dental examination and dental float.
5.  Demonstrate ability to administer, monitor, and prepare transfusions with various blood products.
6.  Demonstrate ability to place intraosseous and multiple lumen jugular catheters in small animals.
7.  Demonstrate ability to perform urinary catheterization and use a closed urinary collection system.
8.  Demonstrate ability to perform a complete ophthalmic examination in dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
9.  Demonstrate ability to perform a complete orthopedic examination in small animals.
10.  Demonstrate ability to monitor and observe patients and then record and report their medical observations.
11.  Demonstrate ability to complete patient care orders.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


