ENE 50600 - Content, Assessment And Pedagogy: An Integrated Engineering Design Approach

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course is explicitly identified in the ENE -PhD requirements as a "foundation course" required for all students.  This course is intended to be taken early in a graduate student's curriculum and therefore is designed to be a bridge between the student's previous experience with engineering (education, work, and teaching) and new engineering education research-based approaches.  It is intended as an entryway to help students apply an engineering design approach to the design of instruction.  To meet this aim, the course involves an iterative project-based approach in a context (design site) that is chosen by the student for its relevance, interest and potential application.  Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Engineering Educ 

Department: Engineering Education 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Develop and articulate an engineering design approach for content, assessment, and pedagogy (CAP).
2. Critically describe the research-based features of each of the elements - content, assessment and pedagogy.
3. Apply the principles and theories to the design of a course, module, lesson plan, or other instructional setting.
4. Use reflection and dialogue as a tool of self-discovery for shaping and refining personal philosophies for the design of instruction.
5. Participate in a "community of practice" culture through formation of our own community and participation in the broader community of engineering education.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


