ASM 49600 - Project Planning And Capstone Project

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 4.00.  Topics relevant to project planning and execution in industry, including technical communication, budgeting, team management, intellectual property, and timelines. Students will develop a project proposal to address contemporary issues in agricultural systems management and complete that plan related to contemporary issues in agricultural systems management. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 TO     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Ag & Biological Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify strategic project objectives and key tasks associated with specific objective completion.
2.  Design an environmental and natural resources system or a machine system to solve a specific need.
3.  Plan the timeline and details of an intermediate term project.
4.  Provide informal progress updates to mentors and instructors regarding project progress.
5.  Interface with and seek guidance from project sponsors.
6.  Model, prototype, and test project designs within a team environment.
7.  Learn how to accomplish specific tactical goals for a project within a larger operational environment (i.e. University Machine Shop & Business Office; Corporate Sponsor's Organization).
8.  Understand the compromises and load sharing necessary for effective team harmony.
9.  Understand the concepts of professionalism, ethical responsibility, and integrity when applied to technical projects.
10.  Enhance written communication skills through the production of a comprehensive final report.
11.  Enhance oral communication skills through the production of a summary technical presentation.
12.  Learn how to respond to questions and criticism.
13.  Understand the concepts of deadline, closure, and delivery.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Agricultural Systems Mgt

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours


