CEM 28000 - Construction Engineering Professional Development I

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will prepare the student for professional practice in construction engineering including information on careers and issues in construction industries; History and Culture of the U.S. Construction Industry; Engineering Ethics and Preparation for Leadership. Information and assistance is also provided related to minors and selections associated with the plan of study; student's organizations; opportunities for construction research and community outreach at Purdue. Guest speakers with be utilized to enhance the experience. The guest speakers include industry partners as well as faculty and staff. There will be an emphasis on written and oral communication.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science and engineering.
2.  Demonstrate an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
3.  Demonstrate an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams.
4.  Demonstrate an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
5.  Demonstrate an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.
6.  Demonstrate ability to communicate effectively.
7.  Demonstrate the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
8.  Demonstrate recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
9.  Demonstrate knowledge of contemporary issues.
10.  Demonstrate an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CEM 19100 Minimum Grade of S and Undergraduate level  CEM 18000 Minimum Grade of D-


