HSCI 51600 - Molecular Imaging-Nuclear Medicine

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is related to molecular imaging by SPECT (single-photon emission computed tomography) and/or PET (positron emission tomography). This course is particularly useful for graduate and senior undergraduate students in the medical physics programs. It has been offered to MP and HP graduate students over the last 4 years (2014-2018) as a part of the 3-credit molecular imaging course with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS: 1-credit) taught by Dr. Ulrike Dydak, computed tomography (CT: 1-credit) taught by Dr. Keith Stantz, and nuclear medicine (NM: 1-credit) taught by Dr. Shuang Liu. In the future, it will be expanded the "Nuclear Medicine" section as a 2-credit course on the basis on the previous lectures. This course focuses on recent development in nuclear medicine techniques for noninvasive imaging of brain diseases, cancer, and heart diseases.  Students are expected to spend more time for homework and literature reading.  Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the basic concept of molecular imaging, techniques for isotope production, and the use of radiolabeled biomolecules (e.g. antibodies and small biomolecules) for diagnosis of brain diseases, cancer and heart diseases, and for target-specific radiotherapy with the receptor-based radiotracers.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-HSCI 51600 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
HSCI
31200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Course or Test: 
HSCI
31300


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



