HTM 59500 - Applied Management Concept

Credit Hours: 4.00.  In this capstone course students integrate their knowledge with concepts and skills learned from previous coursework. Students will examine and deliberate executive-level hospitality and tourism concepts. They shall create an innovative project to address the micro and macro variables of an industry problem, gap, or challenge in Hospitality and Tourism Management (HTM) that synthesizes analytical, critical thinking, business, strategic, and operational hospitality and tourism management skills. Students shall conduct applied management research, access and gather plan-specific information, and construct both hospitality-standardized written and presentation versions of the project. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Generate a business plan that addresses an issue in a hospitality business by applying knowledge from previous coursework including finance, human resource management, marketing, operations management, as well as previous business experience.
2.  Apply management research utilizing online, global databases, collections and other high-quality sources, to address a business issue
3.  Present a business plan that integrates analytical, critical thinking, business, strategic, and operational HTM skills in the areas of management, marketing, human resources, and finance using verbal and written business communication methods.
4.  Apply interpersonal communication and collaboration skills to conduct a project in an online work environment.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Hosp Tour Mgmt-MS

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


