CGT 10301 - Geometric Modeling Applications

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides an introduction to the process of 3D geometric CAD modeling, and the construction techniques used in the creation of constraint-based solid and surface models used in engineering disciplines. Part modeling and assembly modeling are included, as well as manipulation of the geometric model to derive variant designs. Emphasis is on the use of the engineering design process as a problem-solving method to capture modeling behavior to enable the downstream use of 3D data in the overall product design process, and its re-use in the product lifecycle.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture, Recitation, Studio 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate fluency in constraint-based modeling techniques using commercial CAD tools.
2.  Understand the role of geometric modeling in the product lifecycle.
3.  Create effective 3D CAD data to support the incorporation of design intent.
4.  Manipulate a solid model database to support geometry re-use in a PLM setting.
5.  Understand the primary differences between constraint-based, NURBs, behavioral and polygonal modeling and their application to various communicative problems and tasks.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Animation And Visual Effects

      Animation

      Automation & Sys Engr Tech

      Building Information Modeling

      Digital Enterprise Systems

      Data Visualization

      Game Development

      Game Development and Design

      Industrial Design Prof Program

      Mechanical Engr Technology

      Mechatronics Engr Tech

      Robotics Engr Technology

      Supply Chain & Sales Engr Tech

      Strategic Communication Mgmt

      Smart Mfg Ind Informatics

      Technology Education

      Industrial Engineering Tech

      UX Design

      Visual Effects Compositing

      Virtual Product Integration

      Web Programming & Design


