FS 44200 - Food Processing II

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Study of food processing and preservation methods based on the integrated knowledge of microbiology, chemistry, and food engineering; emphasis will be on temperature reduction, water activity, concentration, dehydration, irradiation, and extrusion. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Department of Food Science 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Have sufficient knowledge of food chemistry to control reactions in foods.
2. Understand the major chemical reactions that limit shelf-life of foods.
3. Identify the conditions under which the important pathogens are commonly inactivated, killed, or made harmless in foods.
4. Understand the principles involving food preservation via fermentation processes.
5. Be able to identify the conditions, including sanitation practices under which the important pathogens and spoilage microorganisms are commonly inactivated, killed, or made harmless in foods.
6. Explain the spoilage and deterioration mechanisms in foods and methods to control deterioration and spoilage.
7. Understand the principles that make a food product safe for consumption.
8. Be able to use mass and energy balances for a given food process.
9. Explain the unit operation required to produce a given food product.
10.Understand the principles and current practices of processing techniques and the effects of processing parameters on product quality.
11.Be able to apply and incorporate the principles of food science in practical, real-world situations.
12.Define a problem, identify causes and possible solutions, and make thoughtful recommendations.
13.Work effectively on a team project.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  FS 34100 Minimum Grade of D-


