SYS 50000 - Perspectives On Systems

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides an introduction to, and references for, each of four distinct approaches to SE concepts and tools. Individual assignments and team projects will be based on readings from these multiple approaches and selected case studies. Participants will be encouraged to bring their own prior expertise and examples to the discussions and projects. While the course will discuss quantitative topics (including cybernetics, feedback control systems, and statistical process control), the course itself will emphasize a more interdisciplinary conceptual integration rather than stand-alone analysis of these topics. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: No College Designated 

Department: Purdue Systems Collaboratory 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
2.  Function on multidisciplinary teams.
3.  Identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
4.  Understand professional and ethical responsibility.
5.  Communicate effectively.
6.  Acquire the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
7.  Recognize the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
8.  Acquire knowledge of contemporary issues.
9.  Prepare graduates to design, develop, implement, and improve integrated systems that include people, materials, information, equipment and energy. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


