BMS 80700 - Veterinary Cell And Tissue Biology Design I

Credit Hours: 2.50.  The first of a two-semester sequence of courses, emphasizing developmental and microstructural foundations of structural differentiation of cell, tissue, and organ systems. Emphasis is placed upon principles, fundamental concepts, and applicable details as well as comparative aspects of general importance for veterinary medicine and biomedical research. That you have some background in biochemistry and cell biology is assumed.

    0.000 OR     2.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize and interpret normal microscopic structure, using the language and conventions of medicine.
2.  Understand development resulting in normal structure.
3.  Understand relationships of cellular organelles and inclusions to cellular, tissue, organ, and whole animal physiology.
4.  Develop skills to effectively use a light microscope for critical observation, identification, and analysis, of cell, tissue, organ, and embryonic microstructure.
5.  Develop an awareness of species characteristics and variations of structure that reflect physiology, artifact, gerontology, and pathology.
6.  Develop an awareness of links between cellular and tissue structure to other disciplines of veterinary medicine and biomedical sciences (e.g. physiology, gross anatomy).
7.  Develop approaches to nurture the "active learning" process required to develop and maintain competency as a veterinarian and/or biomedical scientist.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Veterinary Medicine

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


