SYS 30000 - It's A Complex World - Addressing Global Challenges

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The main goal of this course is to address grand challenges that are of global concern - such as environmental sustainability and energy use, natural and human disasters, and political and economic development - using the ideas and tools of complex adaptive systems. The course exploits the broad expertise of the four faculty members by treating these challenges from diverse disciplinary perspectives, from the biological and physical sciences, to the social sciences, to engineering. By way of a set of case studies, students will analyze the features of these challenges which make them complex, and seek to explain and find solutions to the problems that arise in each case. Their treatment of the cases will be informed by published research and computer simulation. Students will actively participate in discussions regarding these global challenges, and contribute to the progress of the class using oral and written presentations. The course will culminate with a final project completed by teams composed of students from different disciplines. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: No College Designated 

Department: Purdue Systems Collaboratory 


Course Attributes: GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe global challenges using engineering, biological, physical, and social scientific perspectives, including attention to the interdependence of the different perspectives.
2.  Explain the fundamental concepts of 'complex adaptive systems, ' including applications to different global challenges.
3.  Develop basic proficiency in applying computer modeling to represent the behavior of complex systems, with applications to the global challenges.
4.  Apply  the  concepts  and  tools  of  complexity  research  to  develop  a  group-based  proposal  of comprehensive policies/solutions/strategies in a new and unresolved problem area.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


