CGT 53200 - UX Design Graduate Studio II: Cross-Channel

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is an advanced exploration of cross-channel approaches to human-centered design, such as service design, that span digital and physical experiences. Students utilize principles of usability and user experience to create and evaluate physical prototypes. The course is platform-independent and encourages students to experiment with new and emerging technologies.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture, Studio 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Conduct advanced analysis of various situations using appropriate processes and methodologies for UX.
2.  Select and apply appropriate user research methods.
3.  Prioritize design requirements based on user research.
4.  Identify and frame perceived and real problems.
5.  Distinguish among popular processes and methodologies for UX.
6.  Create design concepts that address the issues of situations, clients, and problems that demonstrate an
awareness of multiple user touchpoints.
8.  Distinguish among methods for representing design ideas and processes.
9.  Apply contextually appropriate methods for representing design ideas and processes.
10.  Justify appropriateness of chosen methods.
11.  Prototype multi-channel experiences that incorporate physical computing systems and other advanced
technologies.
12.  Apply human factors principles in the creation of physical prototypes.
13.  Apply appropriate methods to evaluate multi-channel experiences.
14.  Demonstrate technical competence with physical computing systems and other advanced
technologies.
15.  Design holistic experiences that integrate multiple channels cohesively.
16.  Explain how design philosophy impacts design practice.
17.  escribe how underlying assumptions and perspectives influence practice.
18.  Identify key components of a design philosophy.
19.  Articulate personal design philosophy.
20.  Apply advanced UX theory in the design and evaluation of interactive experiences.
21.  Distinguish among relevant theoretical frameworks and constructs.
22.  Utilize theoretical frameworks in the design of interactive experiences.
23.  Analyze existing experiences using appropriate theoretical frameworks.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


