HTM 38110 - Revenue Management In The Lodging Industry

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will add to and build upon the knowledge acquired in HTM 18100 Lodging Management. The class will provide a theoretical perspective on service management and how service management concepts can be applied to the hospitality business. The course will also provide an understanding of revenue management's key concepts and applicability of revenue maximization strategies and their operational aspects, components of effective revenue management will be analyzed and its effects on overall profitability. The course will also review the latest issues and trends affecting all aspects and segments of the lodging industry.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the roles that service plays in the success of a hotel in regards to repeat patronage and overall profitability.
2.  Analyze issues related to yield and revenue management and how sales and marketing, front office and reservations departments work together.
3.  Identify important security issues in the hotel and related industry, especially as it affects the world situation today.
4.  Explain and evaluate issues that hotels face in regard to the environment and community they are located in.
5.  Demonstrate creative abilities in analyzing the effectiveness of new hotel concepts.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 24100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 20100 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


