CLPH 45000 - Formulary Dossier Management

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will focus on preparing students for competing in the annual Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy (AMCP) P&T Competition and is intended to give students a variety of experiences that will enhance their knowledge in analyzing complex therapeutic and pharmacoeconomic data, research and public presentation. The course offers an opportunity for students to engage in simulated formulary management by utilizing comparative studies and cost-effectiveness analysis to make real-life decisions on whether or not to add a drug to hospital or health plan formulary. Students will be paired into teams with each team consisting of 4 students. Each team will work independently to analyze the product dossier and prepare a monograph and presentation for the local and/or national competition. Course lectures will focus on information needed to accurately and adequately prepare students in completing the above noted tasks. Class participation is expected, and students will need to be able to engage in self-directed learning outside of class to complete the project in a timely manner. All students are welcome. This course is not intended to focus on students from a specific professional year.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate the ability to accurately and reliably analyze drug information sources.
2.  Demonstrate understanding of basic statistical methodologies used in clinical trials and research design.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to accurately interpret pharmacoeconomic data with respect to its impact on new medical treatments.
4.  Demonstrate effective written communication skills with regards to monograph composition and presentation.
5.  Demonstrate effective public speaking and presentation skills by conduction a PowerPoint presentation in a confident, organized and engaging manner.
6.  Demonstrate the ability to reliably critique journal articles and clinical research trials based on design, methodology and results and to accurately assess statistical and clinical significance.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year

      Professional Second Year


