NUR 61100 - Primary Care Of The Young Family

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Prepares family nurse practitioner students to assume responsibility for the coordination and delivery of culturally appropriate health services to childbearing and childrearing families. Students apply theory and research to the management of pregnancy, well-child care, stable chronic conditions, and acute episodic illnesses commonly encountered in primary care settings. The course emphasizes a sound conceptual basis for practice and an appreciation for evidence-based care. Students continue to integrate health promotion and health maintenance into the primary care of young families. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Distinguish age-related norms for the primary care of young families.
2.  Design interventions and immunization schedules for newborns through adolescents with selected common developmental deviations.
3.  Formulate parental counseling strategies appropriate for primary health care of children.
4.  Evaluate appropriate nutritional requirements and propose interventions for young families (men, pregnant women, lactating women, and children).
5.  Present an appropriate plan of care for the assessment and management of young families with selected common uncomplicated health problems.
6.  Incorporate community, social, cultural, spiritual, and individual resources into the care of young families.
7.  Differentiate normal and pathological changes in pregnancy to identify the need for specialty referral.
8.  Select appropriate pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions for pregnant and lactating women.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


