CNIT 58600 - IT Requirements Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course explores the approaches used by today's information system professionals to conduct and manage the requirements development process. Course emphasis focuses on contemporary techniques for requirements elicitation, requirements analysis, requirements specification, requirements validation and verification. Emphasis is also placed on identifying stakeholders through the use of formal stakeholder analysis techniques, the use of formal change control, requirements traceability and the use of requirements management tools. The course is designed based on the principles and competencies prescribed by the Project Management institute's PM BOK (Project Management Body of Knowledge) and Business Analyst Guide as well as the International Institute of Business Analysis's BABOK (Business Analysis Body of Knowledge). Permission of Department required.



    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Research and analyze in order to discuss the pros and cons in intelligent discourse, of the need for, and integration of techniques for requirements management into information technology projects.
2.  Research and assess the various elicitation, analysis, specification and validation approaches to requirements development in real life business problems.
3.  Accurately document, and communicate business requirements for an IT project.
4.  Select, defend and utilize requirements management tools and techniques in the context of information technology projects and management.
5.  For residential, thesis students, research and contribute to the requirements management body of knowledge as it can be applied to information technology projects.






Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


