EDCI 67500 - Instructional Strategies

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Examines and applies the cognitive strategies and tactics that can be used by an instructional designer to improve human learning. Applications of chunking, frames, concept mapping, advance organizers, analogies, rehearsal, and imagery tactics to learning will be covered. Implementation and evaluation procedures for those strategies within intellectual skills, verbal information, psychomotor, and attitude domains of learning will be studied and applied.  Prerequisite:  EDCI  57200. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify, synthesize, and summarize practical, research based guidelines that facilitate the development of quality instructional results.
2.  Identify, describe, and select relevant cognitive techniques/strategies (e.g., analogies, metaphors, imagery and mnemonics) and cite relevant research to indicate their appropriate use and effectiveness.
3.  Identify, describe, and select relevant instructional methods (e.g., case-based instruction, cooperative learning, discussion, simulation, peer mentoring, reciprocal teaching, and discovery) and cite relevant research to indicate their appropriate use and effectiveness.
4.  Identify, describe, and select relevant motivational strategies that can be incorporated to increase learner effort in a learning task and cite relevant research to indicate their appropriate use and effectiveness.
5.  Given a task to evaluate instructional materials for specific content, identify the type of learning involved, select the appropriate set of instructional techniques, methods and strategies, and utilize those to design and propose an effective instructional outcome.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


