BIOL 32800 - Principles Of Physiology

Credit Hours: 4.00. This course is designed to provide students with an introduction to physiology with an emphasis on cellular mechanisms that underlie anatomical and physiological adaptations used by animals to survive in their habitat. Topics covered will range from cellular respiration to the physical limits of animal performance as we deconstruct and then reconstruct the body to examine how animals can live in extreme environments. Goals for this course are for students to gain a foundation in basic physiological principles, to learn about the integrative nature of the systems of animals, and to appreciate how and why animals have evolved and strategies to help them survive in their unique environment.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Learn the integrative nature of the functioning of different cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems in maintaining adequate conditions for the proper functioning of vertebrate animals.
2.  Learn the detailed mechanisms underlying the function of selected physiological systems from the level of the macromolecules to the system as a whole (ex. Cardiovascular system).
3.  Appreciate the conserved nature of the fundamental functioning of cells and systems across many different animals from invertebrates to vertebrates.
4.  Gain practical experience with some selected systems in the laboratory.
5.  Learn how to design and execute independent experiments and take the results from those experiments and analyze and orally present them to the  class.
6.  Learn how to work as part of a collaborative team.




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BIOL 23100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 23000 Minimum Grade of D-


