TLI 62500 - Research In Open Innovation I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is a research-oriented course designed for graduate students who aim to develop and implement a scientific research project in the field of open innovation. They will critically discuss and evaluate scientific writings relevant to the new research area of open innovation from the fields and disciplines of innovation studies, information systems, and other social sciences. Through synthesis of theories and frameworks used in academic articles, the students will develop a theoretically and practically motivated research question. They will also implement a pilot study to examine their hypotheses. The Research Center for Open Digital Innovation (RCODI) in the Discovery Park at Purdue will offer opportunities to plan and implement individual questions, if students have not identified their own data source. In addition, the students will participate in an action-oriented research project in open innovation performed by the class as a group project to gain experience in experimental innovation research and practice. Prerequisites: Basic statistics (at least STAT 30100 or equivalent, STAT 50100 or higher is recommended); foundational knowledge in scientific research (TECH 64600 or SOC 58000 or equivalent). Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Technology Ldrshp & Innovatn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate and synthesize scientific literature on open innovation.
2.  Develop a research question and model for an empirical study in the field of open innovation.
3.  Implement a pilot study in open innovation and prepare a scientific article.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


