HTM 31500 - Club Management And Operations

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A study of the organization, administration, operation, and opportunities within the private club industry, with emphasis on the manager's duties. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the various types of clubs, and the job of a club manager, including attributes of successful club managers.
2.  Describe the career prospects in managing clubs; the issues facing clubs today and prospects for the future of the club industry.
3.  Explain the fundamentals of good human resource management as it applies to clubs.
4.  List issues that are unique or particularly significant to clubs, including legal, technological and financial issues.
5.  Explain the differences and similarities between clubs and public hospitality operations.
6.  Describe and discuss the products, activities and services in the club industry and how a manager works toward identifying, understanding and improving these in their club.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Accounting

      Economics

      Finance

      General Management

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt

      Industrial Management

      Marketing

      Supply Chain Info & Analytics


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HTM 23100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 32400 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  HTM 24100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 20100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  TCEM 24100 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  HTM 31200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MGMT 44428 Minimum Grade of C-)


