PUBH 51100 - Foundations Of Global Health

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Global disparities in the health and well-being of diverse populations, across and within borders, has never been greater. Profound and rapid changes in demographics, from population growth to urbanization, along with unprecedented shifts in patterns of disease and risks, are coupled with game-changing advances in knowledge, technology, and innovation. This course will introduce students to current challenges and efforts at solutions in global health, within a focus on low- and middle-income countries. It will provide an interdisciplinary overview of topics that include measure of health and disease, communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria, non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, women's health, maternal and child health, food systems and nutrition, health systems, and health care delivery. In addition to lectures, the course will include interactive discussions of case studies and specific country examples, aimed at immersing students in he debates and challenges facing global health leaders and decision makers.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Public Health 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify major shifts and trends in health patterns, burden of disease, population dynamics, and globalization.
2.  Understand the historical context of global health and current evolving agendas.
3.  Analyze diverse global health challenges, incorporating ethical, environmental, political, historical, and societal perspectives, with a focus on low- and middle-income countries.
4.  Evaluate global health research to assess how conclusions arise from evidence and analysis.
5.  Formulate evidence-based arguments for/against diverse global health policies or interventions.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


