NUR 50100 - Foundations Of Advanced Practice In Nursing

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course builds on the knowledge and experiences that students possess when beginning their advanced practice in nursing education.  Students explore their assumptions about advanced practice in nursing, its historical context and definitions of the various advanced practice roles, conceptual underpinnings and role competencies.  Students develop an appreciation for how evidence based practice influences advanced practice in nursing. They develop skills that include using information communication technologies, identifying problems, posing questions that lead to evidence sources, searching and differentiating among various sources and types of evidence.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Analyze personal perspectives of advanced practice in nursing as they relate to accepted definitions and standards for advanced practice in nursing.
2. Discuss factors that have contributed to the definitions, conceptual underpinnings and role competencies of advanced practice in nursing.
3. Identify nursing practice problems and specify searchable questions using a systematic methodology.
4. Use information communication technologies to search, sort and organize sources of information and evidence.
5. Differentiate sources of information and types of evidence that are more likely to be of high quality.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-CPOSTM


