EDPS 44200 - Advanced Intervention In Applied Behavior Analysis

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is one of four courses in the Applied Behavior Analysis pathway for undergraduates in teacher licensure programs and is also part of the course content required to become a Board certified Assistant Behavior Analyst (BCaBA). This course will provide fundamental knowledge and experiences for understanding instructional and behavior interventions grounded in the principles of Applied behavior Analysis including a pivotal response training, functional communication training, video modeling, self-management, social skills training, and augmentative and alternative communication (AAC). Students learn procedures to increase or decrease target behavior, to facilitate behavior maintenance and generalization, and to evaluate effectiveness of instruction. Students will also learn strategies for consultation with other service providers as well as practices for effective supervision of others such as paraeducators.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify, distinguish between, and provide examples of core (basic and advanced) concepts and principles in the field of behavior analysis.
2.  Describe the concepts of motivating operations and stimulus control and demonstrate application to instruction.
3.  Demonstrate procedures for implementing functional communication training and describe the principles of ABA involved.
4.  Describe processes and demonstrate procedures for implementing a variety of instructional strategies including pivotal response training, peer mediating learning, video modeling, augmentative and alternative communication, social skills training.
5.  Describe strategies and procedures for implementing group contingencies.
6.  Describe and demonstrate how to implement self-management programs.
7.  Synthesize procedures for supervising implementors (e.g. paraeducators) through implementation of ABA strategies including behavior skills training.
8.  Discuss strategies for consulting with other school and community-based providers including parents.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 34100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 34200 Minimum Grade of D-


