ASEC 53100 - Global Learning For Agriculture, Food And Natural Resources

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is a graduate-level course in which students research, design, and evaluate communication and education methods and theoretical frameworks to apply appropriate cultural, community engagement, targeted outcomes of a population defined by the student. The central  experience is an international/intercultural professional development experience immersed in rural and urban communities and cultures. Students will learn and develop global perspectives and effective engagement strategies to address agronomic, cultural and community engagement realities affecting agriculture, life sciences and natural resources.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Have the skills to distinguish between educational designs needed for different goals and outcomes of global/intercultural learning programs.
2.  Understand and apply one's own culture to interact among people with differing cultures, beliefs and values while designing engagement programs.
3.  Design an educational intervention/module which is culturally appropriate and meets the needs of the community/learners.
4.  Construct meaning from instructional messages, including oral, written and graphic communication applying the intersectionality of Social Identity, Intercultural Sensitivity, and Critical Race theories to engagement situations.
5.  Evaluate one's self-awareness and recognition of others such that they can emotionally adapt their thinking and being in global/intercultural engagement efforts.
6.  Identify best practices for educational global immersion experience related to food, fiber, and natural resources.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


