MCMP 42200 - Immunology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course exposes students to the basic principles of immunology, teaches students to use those principles to understand the cause of immunological disease and the basis of immunoprophylaxis and immunotherapy, and provides students with sufficient information to understand the principles and challenges of gene therapy and the application of genomics to future drug development. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Medicinal Chem/Molecular Pharm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  The basic components of the immune system and their roles in innate and adaptive immunity. 
2.  The development and function of lymphocytes in adaptive immunity. 
3.   The molecular basis of antibody diversity.
4.  How antigens are recognized by T cells. 
5.  How B cells develop and function in the body. 
6.  How T cells develop in the body and differentiate into specialized subsets.
7.  How lymphocytes undergo positive and negative selection. 
8.  How B cells and T cells are activated and participate in adaptive immunity. 
9.  The basis of MHC polymorphism and the role on the immune response. 
10.  How the complement system is activated and plays its role in immune responses. 
11.  How the cellular components of the innate and adaptive immune systems combine to generate an effective response against pathogens. 
12.  How the body remembers a previous infection.
13.  The types and causes of immunodeficiency diseases. 
14.  How infection with HIV affects the immune system.
15.  How the immune system sometimes recognizes harmless antigens (allergic reactions).
16.   How the immune system can damage healthy tissue. 
17.  The basis and practice of immunization. 
18.  How the immune system complicates organ transplantation. 
19.  How the immune system recognizes cancer cells and can be used to combat cancer. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Pre-Pharmacy

      Pharmacy-BS



Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 22100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]) and (Undergraduate level  MCMP 20500 Minimum Grade of C- or (Undergraduate level  CHM 25600 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  CHM 25601 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently])   )


