VCS 80110 - Veterinary Skills And Competencies I

Credit Hours: 2.50.  This course is designed to allow students to develop competence in communication, husbandry, diagnostic, and therapeutic skills of veterinary medicine and surgery. In addition, instruction will be delivered in the areas of veterinary business, professionalism, and health professional wellness. Instruction will be provided by online modules, hands-on laboratories using models, cadavers, and live animals, as well as, self-paced training in the veterinary skills lab. Students will further develop these skills through the care of teaching animals. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate basic safety, husbandry, and restraint of dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
2.  Demonstrate basic principles of hygiene and bio-security.
3.  Demonstrate ability to take, record, and communicate appropriate history information.
4.  Demonstrate safe and appropriate administration of medications per oz. to dogs, cats, food animals, and horses.
5.  Demonstrate correct calculation of IV fluid dosing.
6.  Demonstrate knowledge of basic medical equipment use.
7.  Demonstrate knowledge of surgical instrumentation, needles, and suture material.
8.  Demonstrate ability to perform complete basic physical examination of a dog, cat, food animal, and horse.
9.  Demonstrate effective use of non-verbal communication.
10.  Demonstrate an understanding of stress management techniques.
11.  Demonstrate an understanding of social media's impact on a professional career and client relationships.
12.  Demonstrate an understanding of the principles of collegiality with respect to competition and the impact of dishonesty in a professional setting.
13.  Demonstrate an awareness of the risks for and methods for prevention of suicide.
14.  Demonstrate an understanding of the definition of cyberbullying and methods to protect yourself.
15.  Demonstrate an ability to manage conflict within the veterinary team.
16.  Demonstrate an understanding of the laws and policies of veterinary medicine.
17.  Demonstrate an understanding of USDA identification techniques.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


