HK 63000 - Administration Of Athletic Training Programs

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Course covering management and supervision of personnel, financial resources, as well as the preparation in planning, designing, developing, organizing, implementing, directing, and evaluating an athletic training health care program and facility. Legal concerns, risk management, insurance, and reimbursement will be discussed. Prerequisite: Completion of HK 50000 with a grade of B- or better. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Summarize the components associated with professional development and regulation of athletic trainers.
2.  Distinguish the roles and responsibilities of health care professionals in the field of sports medicine.
3.  Compare the current initiatives, missions, objectives, and professional activities of other allied health and medical organizations and professions.
4.  Analyze the major elements of the National Athletic Trainers Association (NATA) Code of Ethics against published case report.
5.  Recognize the importance and complexity of the ethical and legal issues associated with medical information, authorization to participate, record keeping, and confidentiality.
6.  Appraise and recommend medical and professional liability insurance policies.
7.  Develop administrative policy and procedures for operation of an athletic medical facility.
8.  Develop a system of records for athletes and general facility operations.
9.  Develop a comprehensive pre-participation medical exam.
10.  Develop a basic architectural design of an athletic medical facility that is safe and efficient.
11.  Develop a budget for operation of an athletic medical facility.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


