ENE 50500 - Theories Of Development And Engineering Thinking

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course examines theories of human development, learning and epistemology in the context of Engineering Education. A broad survey of readings guides an in-depth study of fundamental theories of development and knowledge generation as it relates to pedagogy and research. A rich body of theoretical literature will be studied in order to explore its relation to engineering education. Work in the course aims to construct answers to the following three questions: (1) How do theories of human learning, development, and epistemology help us think about engineering? (2) How do they relate to engineering education? (3) How do they inform research method and practice in engineering education? No restrictions. It is helpful, however, for students to have engaged in prior reading-and writing- intensive courses that required them to synthesize large amounts of information. For this reason, it is recommended that students are enrolled currently in a graduate program at Purdue University. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Engineering Educ 

Department: Engineering Education 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Summarize and critique theories of learning and development.
2.  Propose connections between theories of learning and development and engineering thinking.
3.  Apply theories of learning and development to the construction of engineering learning environments.
4.  Generate engineering education research questions that are aligned with respective theories of learning and development.
5.  Remember the main points of historically important theories of learning and development.
6.  Consider how different theories of learning and development might be used as frameworks for your individual research projects (e.g. your dissertation research).



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


