EDST 61000 - Supervision Of Instruction And Instructional Personnel

Credit Hours: 3.00.  (EDFA 610) A comprehensive approach to supervision and instruction that develops the knowledge, interpersonal, and leadership skills, which are then applied in a school setting for the purpose of instructional improvement. Models of supervision, leadership and evaluation will be examined to gain knowledge in order to apply effective strategies for diverse situations. The study of transformational change in today's schools will guide leadership knowledge to the task of direct assistance, collegiality, collaboration, culture of trust, professional development, dialectic inquiry, curriculum development and action research.  Prerequisite: EDST 51200. Typically offered Summer Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize the temper of diverse situations within their instructional leadership role and appropriately apply strategies that will address the situations.
2.  Use the understanding and experience of instructional supervision concepts explored throughout this course and apply supervisory principles to the daily functions and responsibilities of an education administrator.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to correctly apply various leadership concepts to various fact-based situations and formulate a plan of action to address each situation.
4.  Accurately interpret the characteristics of a healthy organization (campus, district, etc.).
5.  Evaluate the results of teacher and administrator interviews regarding system and recommend a teacher appraisal system that may improve the equality of observations and appraisals.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


