CNIT 32000 - Policy, Regulation, And Globalization In Information Technology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides students with opportunities to study how technology is intertwined with larger economic, social, cultural, and ethical dynamics in an era of intensified globalization. The course examines technology in a global environment. Students will explore concepts and issues related to law, policy, regulation, outsourcing, offshoring, globalization, global competitiveness, global communications, cultural differences and quality of life issues. Students will examine ethical situations that arise as a result of the impact of technology. In summary, the course is designed to help students understand what it means to identify as, and/or work with, technology in a global environment.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand cultural traditions, societal ethics and the impact of culture on industry.
2.  Understand issues with leading international teams and managing international projects.
3.  Identify and apply public policy issues relevant to technology solutions.
4.  Understand the logistics of international travel including the use of passports and visas.
5.  Identify, apply and understand organizational ethics including conflicts of interest and individual ethical responsibilities.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Info Tech-BS

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  TECH 12000 Minimum Grade of D-


