EDPS 46000 - Strategies For Teaching Individuals With Mild And Moderate Disabilities Primary & Elementary Grades

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course is designed to prepare future special educators to plan and provide content area instruction in the core content areas to primary and elementary students with mild and moderate disabilities. Course content will include information on assessment, instructional design, and development of individualized education programs, research-based practices for promoting academic and behavioral growth, and content area literacy and numeracy, and your professional role as a teacher of students with mild disabilities. This course has a required concurrent enrollment in EDPS 46100.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the legal requirements of academic goals and learning supports within individualized education plans (IEPs) and demonstrate understanding of assessment and monitoring procedures necessary to evaluate student progress.
2.  Identify the principal instructional arrangements common to P-6 settings for students with mild disabilities, how the arrangement impacts classroom organization, and how to modify the arrangement to meet individual student needs.
3.  Identify the common characteristics of evidence-based behavioral and instructional strategies implemented in P-6. These include class-wide (Tier 1) and targeted (Tier II) interventions.
4.  Produce standards-based lesson plans for literacy and numeracy that incorporate evidence-based practices, classroom resources (e.g., peer and paraprofessional), and technological supports for use with students who have diverse learning differences.
5.  Distinguish between accommodations, modifications, and interventions within the assessment, teaching and IEP development process.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Elementary Education

      Special Ed/Elem Education


Corequisites: 

EDPS 46100


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  EDPS 23500 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 26500 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 27000 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 36100 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 36200 Minimum Grade of C- and Undergraduate level  EDPS 36400 Minimum Grade of C-


