CNIT 38501 - Advanced Systems Design And Integration

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A continuation of CNIT 38000 with an emphasis on knowledge, skills, tools, and techniques that systems analysts and architects use to translate functional systems requirements into design specifications that can be subsequently implemented. Students will learn methods for developing specifications that fulfill desired quality properties such as performance, scalability, maintainability, security, privacy, and protection of corporate property, interoperability, and usability, to name a few. Special emphasis is placed on integrating new systems with older systems, as well as with business processes. This course takes a holistic view of design and integration that specifies a complete information technology or information systems solution from the perspectives of different stakeholders, and from different systemic viewpoints and perspectives. Increasingly, the result of design and integration is referred to as a solution's architecture.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Practice Study Observation 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe holistically, in intelligent conversation, the design and architecture of information technology solutions.
2.  Identify and evaluate current and emerging technologies and assess their applicability to address an IT solution's needs.
3.  Apply a comprehensive framework for IT solution architecture to an approved problem domain.
4.  Document accurately system representations of multiple architectural and design "concerns" of an IT solution, from the perspectives of different stakeholders.
5.  Work effectively in teams and communicate effectively with various stakeholders of an architectural description of an IT solution.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Info Tech-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CNIT 38000 Minimum Grade of C-


