CE 40300 - Principles Of Photogrammetry And Remote Sensing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introduction to photogrammetry and remote sensing methods used to produce maps and capture spatial information for solving civil engineering problems. Topics include: terrestrial, airborne, and satellite-based imaging systems; photogrammetric measurement, and mapping methods; photographic and digital image interpretation; digital image processing techniques.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Civil Engineering 

Department: Lyles School of Civil Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students will be able to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems while demonstrating proficiency in mathematics and science through differential equations, calculus based on physics, general chemistry, and probability and statistics.   
2.  Students will demonstrate the ability to critically analyze and interpret data in two or more civil engineering curriculum areas. 
3.  Students will demonstrate the ability to select and utilize modern engineering tools and techniques necessary for engineering practice. 
4.  Students will demonstrate an awareness of the requirements for professional licensure and continuing education. 
5.  Students will demonstrate the ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing. 
6.  Students will demonstrate the ability to work effectively in multi-disciplinary teams. 
7.  Students will demonstrate an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility along with the importance of a personal commitment to lifelong learning. 




Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CE 20300 Minimum Grade of C- and (Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 18200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 17400 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 26300 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  MA 27100 Minimum Grade of C-)


