EDCI 52003 - Theories And Trends In Curriculum And Instruction

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course focuses on current theories and trends influencing curriculum and instruction. A theory is a plausible or scientifically acceptable general principle or body of principles offered to explain phenomena. It is a belief, policy, or procedure proposed or followed as the basis of action. A trend, on the other hand, is a pattern of gradual change in a condition, output, or process. It reflects a general tendency of a series of moves in a certain direction over time. We will focus on understanding sources of current theories and trends and how they may influence work in curriculum and instruction. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Examine and clarify the educational beliefs, values, and knowledge guiding your curricular and instructional decisions.
2. Utilize and evaluate multiple appropriate sources in researching current curriculum and instruction trends and issues.
3. Interpret, critique, and synthesize relevant research related to current curriculum and instruction trends.
4. Assess the implications of research relative to your curricular and instructional practices.
5. Interpret, critique, and synthesize relevant educational theories related to current curriculum and instruction trends.
6. Assess the implications of educational theories relative to your curricular and instructional practices.
7. Interpret, critique, and synthesize relevant state and national policy decisions related to current curriculum and instruction trends.
8. Assess the implications of state and national policy decisions relative to your curricular and instructional practices.
9. Communicate effectively in oral and written formats.
10. Demonstrate the disposition for life-long learning and continuous professional development.
11. Identify communities of practice within discipline and participate within these communities according to the ethical standards of the discipline.
12. Examine and clarify how your educational beliefs, values, and knowledge guide your curricular and instructional decisions address the diversity of students, schools, and communities.
13. Advocate for values of diversity, inclusivity, and social justice.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Educ Curr Inst-MS Ed


