EDPS 32000 - Happiness And Well-Being: Introduction To Positive Psychology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Happiness and Well-Being: An Introduction to Positive Psychology is an undergraduate course designed to provide students with an introduction to the field of positive psychology while also learning valuable, impactful life skills that can improve individual well-being, resilience, flow, happiness, and mindfulness for those enrolled. The course is designed in such a way time is devoted to both lecture and discussion based learning as well as experiential activities in the classroom designed to expose students to positive psychology constructs. Students will be exposed to strength oriented approaches to understanding human behavior, the instillation of hope and optimism, and multiple other positive psychology concepts that augment understanding of psychology. Students should be willing to participate in experiential exercises using positive psychology methods designed to promote self-awareness and growth. Though this course derives material from psychology, applications of the material can be made across fields and majors; thus, all students will benefit from better understanding human behavior, happiness, and well-being from an inclusive, positive psychology perspective. This class introduces the student to the major topics of the growing area of positive psychology. Students will learn theories, techniques and research associated with methods that promote happiness and psychological well-being. This introductory class will begin the journey into positive psychology and provides a foundation for further study of applied psychology and counseling at the graduate level.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 3 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the importance of balancing psychological understanding by integrating positive psychology concepts and positive assets/characteristics into conceptualization of deficit and difficulty most often found in psychology.
2.  Develop an understanding of positive psychology concepts and their practical implications.
3.  Identify the impact that positive psychology concepts can have in your specific fields and future careers.
4.  Understand human social behavior from a lens that incorporates understanding of the positive assets with individuals, communities, and systems.
5.  Develop the ability to implement positive psychology concepts in your own life with the hope of improving well-being and happiness.
 






