VM 20100 - Introduction To Veterinary Technology

Credit Hours: 1.50.  A didactic course which presents the basic skills that will be used in all nursing courses and in the overall curriculum. The course will provide an introduction to the various opportunities within the veterinary healthcare profession as well as a general introduction to the attributes and traits of veterinary medical professionals. In addition, the course introduces medical math and terminology used in veterinary medicine. Students will complete exercises utilizing math concepts used for dosage calculations, conversions, proper notation, dispensing medications, fluid therapy calculations, and percent solutions. Students will use medical terminology including prefixes, roots, and suffixes of medical terms to complete exercises. This knowledge will be utilized in didactic courses and labs as well as in clinical rotations. Students will learn normal temperature, pulse and respiration values for various species. There will be both in-class and self-study components. This course combines content previously presented in VM 14000 and VM 25100. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     1.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Utilize medical math to calculate drug dosages, dispense medications, fluid therapy rates, and percent solutions.
2.  Apply medical math concepts to perform conversions and use proper notation.
3.  Understand and utilize medical terminology in didactic classes, laboratories, and clinic rotations.
4.  Know normal temperature, pulse and respiration values for various species and report abnormalities.
5.  Learn methods to manage stress in a professional program.
6.  Discuss legal and ethical issues in veterinary medicine, as well as professional development and organizations.
7.  Apply diversity and inclusion skills as they apply in veterinary medicine.
8.  Discuss compassion fatigue and euthanasia in veterinary medicine.
9.  Participate in discussions with veterinary technicians and technologists working in specialty areas of profession.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


