HK 51500 - Emergency Medical Management In Athletic Training

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is designed to teach management concepts and skills used by athletic trainers in emergency situations. Topics addressing prevention, recognition, and management of life threatening and/or severe injury and illness are included. Application of skills that include the environment, CPR/AED, airway management, immobilization, bleeding control and sudden illness management are also addressed. Students will become certified in CPR/AED. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Analyze typical administrative policies and procedures that govern first aid and emergency care.
2.  Distinguish the different hospital trauma levels and the role of the system in the transportation decision making process.
3.  Perform a primary and secondary patient assessment, as well as an assessment of the scene.
4.  Obtain and interpret vital signs including pulse, respirations, blood pressure, core body temperature, and oxygen saturation.
5.  Distinguish the different types of airway adjuncts and demonstrate airway management skills.
6.  Evaluate the indications, application, and treatment parameters for supplemental oxygen administration for emergency situations, and be able to administer supplemental oxygen.
7.  Apply proper management strategies for external hemorrhage.
8.  Compare different proper positioning, immobilization and transfer techniques for a patient using a spine board.
9.  Evaluate and select proper techniques for removing equipment and clothing to access an airway or evaluate an injured part.
10.  Evaluate and choose techniques to immobilize injuries to the extremities.
11.  Explain and demonstrate the management of medical and sudden illness such as sudden cardiac arrest, asthma, shock, diabetic emergencies, burns, anaphylaxis, and internal bleeding.
12.  Recommend strategies to manage environmental emergencies.
13.  Distinguish and recommend techniques for infectious control regulations including Universal Precautions.
14.  Attain Basic Life Support for Healthcare Providers certification.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


