AAE 20300 - Aeromechanics I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Fundamental concepts and principles of bodies in motion, with applications to aeronautical and astronautical problems. Subjects covered include rectilinear motion, curvilinear motion, rotation, and plane motion. The static equilibrium and quasistatic equilibrium situations are treated as a part of motion in which the acceleration is zero. Problems involving impact, separation, work, and energy are considered.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Aero and Astro Engr 

Department: Aeronautics & Astronautics 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Compute velocities and accelerations for any type of motion.
2.  Compute angular velocities and accelerations of rigid bodies.
3.  Model forces and apply Newton's Laws in particle dynamic problems.
4.  Model forces and solve general statics of bodies problems.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      School of Aero and Astro Engr

      School of Biomedical Engr

      School of Civil Engineering

      School of Chemical Engineering

      Construction Engineering Mgmt

      First Year Engineering

      School of Elec & Computer Engr

      School of Engineering Educ

      Div of Environ & Ecol Engr

      School of Interdisciplnry Engr

      School of Industrial Engr

      School of Mechanical Engr

      School of Materials Engr

      School of Nuclear Engineering

      School of Agr and Bio Engr


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  PHYS 17200 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  PHYS 16200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  PHYS 16300 Minimum Grade of D-) or Undergraduate level  ENGR 16200 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MATH 26100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 26300 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 17200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 18200 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 27101 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  MA 17400 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


