EDPS 55400 - Positive Learning Environments And Classroom Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will focus on classroom PBIS practices to create positive learning environments (online and face-to-face), establish classroom expectations, and develop academic and behavioral routines to meet the social, emotional, and behavioral needs of students with exceptionalities. This course will support candidates as they develop classroom practices that are positive and preventative in nature and align to larger school and district positive behavioral supports.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify types, characteristics, strengths, limitations, and evaluate theoretical approaches and research-based models of behavior intervention, motivation, and reinforcement techniques used with students with exceptionalities.
2.  Analyze how teacher attitudes and behaviors can affect students with and without disabilities and the ability to apply strategies for developing and maintaining rapport with all students.
3.  Evaluate strategies for creating a safe, positive, equitable, and supportive classroom climate and apply those strategies to plan, manage, and modify the learning environment, including effective classroom routines.
4.  Evaluate strategies to encourage students' active participation, meaningful engagement, and independent in individual and group activities, across learning environments.
5.  Analyze barriers to accessibility (e.g., physical, technological) and apply strategies for adapting the environment to meet individual needs.
6.  Create a plan to incorporate the use of paraeducators, volunteers, and/or tutors within the classroom environment.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Special Education


