ECE 30653 - Introduction To Nanotechnology And Quantum Science & Technology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This interdisciplinary course offers an introduction to nanotechnology and quantum science and technology for undergraduate students in science and engineering. The students will develop understanding of interdisciplinary nature of these fields and utilize concepts in physics, chemistry and mechanics to describe and analyze unique properties of quantum and nanoscale objects. The course will provide the opportunity to get exposed to highly interdisciplinary nature of today's most active and rapidly expanding fields of research and technologies.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Elec & Computer Engr 

Department: Electrical & Computer Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Define major types of nanoparticles and their sources.
2.  Illustrate by simple calculations unique physical properties of nanoscale objects, e.g. calculate de Broglie wavelength, surface energy, melting point.
3.  Describe basic nanostructure measurement methods.
4.  Give examples of economic benefits of nano and quantum technology.
5.  Describe approaches for managing security, health and environmental risks.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Computer Engineering

      Electrical Engineering


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  MA 26100 Minimum Grade of D- and (Undergraduate level  MA 26600 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 26200 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  PHYS 27200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  PHYS 24100 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11500 Minimum Grade of D- or (Undergraduate level  CHM 11100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D-)   )


