BME 51100 - Biomedical Signal Processing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introductions to the application of digital signal processing to practical problems involving biomedical signals and systems. Topics include: overview of biomedical signals; filtering to remove artifacts; event detection; analysis of waveshape and waveform complexity; frequency domain characterization; modeling biomedical signal-generating systems; analysis of non-stationary signals; pattern classification and diagnostic decisions, MATLAB is used throughout to apply the theory and techniques discussed to biomedical signals.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Biomedical Engr 

Department: Weldon Schl of Biomedical Engr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand practical problems faced in objective analyses of biomedical signals.
2.  Understand the underlying physiological and anatomical factors that are relevant for numerous types of biomedical signals.
3.  Understand the theoretical background underlying the use of digital signal processing for biomedical applications.
4.  Understand the practical benefits and limitations of various digital signal processing approaches and identify the best solution for specific problems.
5.  Implement appropriate signal processing algorithms for practical problems involving biomedical signals and systems
6.  Propose, carry out, orally present, and write up in a conference proceedings format a biomedical-research mini project using- signal processing algorithms.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-BME 51100 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ECE
30100


May not be taken concurrently.
)



