PHRM 87000 - Health Policy Applications

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course will explore policy issues that influence health care.  The course will provide students opportunities to apply material from prior courses in Health Systems, Population Health Management, and Public Health as it relates to the impact of health policy.  Students will gain an understanding of how policy development must address competing interests and goals, and how policy can influence the scope of pharmacist's professional roles.  Timely materials on current policy, current policy debates, and professional advocacy will be discussed. Typically offered Fall.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss health policy drivers that impact the current healthcare market.
2.  Discuss the impact of various national and state health policies influence on how health care is organized, delivered, and financed.
3.  Evaluate potential consequences of specific national, state, and local health policies on health systems, providers, and patients.
4.  Identify the process and challenges regarding pursing state legislative health policy change.
5.  Analyze healthcare policies and identify opportunities to modify policy to advance the profession of pharmacy.
6.  Generate and evaluate policy development strategies to affect health care access, health care quality, and health care cost.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 (Professional level  PHRM 82700 Minimum Grade of D- or Professional level  PHRM 85200 Minimum Grade of D-) and Professional level  PHRM 83100 Minimum Grade of D- and Professional level  PHRM 84900 Minimum Grade of D-


