EEE 35500 - Engineering Environmental Sustainability

Credit Hours: 3.00. (CE 35500) An introduction to the examination of global-scale resource utilization, food, energy and commodity production, population dynamics, and their ecosystem impacts. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Div of Environ & Ecol Engr 

Department: Environ & Ecological Engr 


Course Attributes: GTC-Science, Tech & Society, UC-Science, Tech & Society, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students will be creative thinkers that can collect and analyze appropriate data and information, and perform necessary quantitative analysis to develop original and innovative management strategies for real-world sustainability problems. 
2.  Students will be able to individually and in teams skillfully communicate in writing, orally, and with multimedia their ideas and conclusions about managing sustainability issues in a manner that increases knowledge and understanding of the audience.
3.  Students will be critical thinkers that can identify the environmental, social, political, and economic dimensions of technical challenges and evaluate their own and others' perspectives in forming logical opinions and conclusions. 
4.  Students will be able to effectively identify information needs, efficiently acquire appropriate information, and critically evaluate and use it in an ethical and scholarly fashion to gain understanding of and communicate about sustainability issues, challenges, and strategies. 
5.  Students will become global citizens and socially aware by gaining knowledge of diverse international and cultural perspectives and display social responsibility and leadership in managing sustainability issues, ultimately increasing their global literacy.
6.  Students will learn how to be a productive team member, constructively evaluate their own and others' performances, resolve conflicts effectively and encourage the willing contributions of everyone.  




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours


