CSR 41800 - Selling And Sales Management Capstone

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A capstone course in advanced professional selling taught in a seminar format and designed to prepare students for the transition from student to professional. Students are introduced to practitioner-focused issues involved in long-term, major B2B account sales and an emphasis is placed on professional presentation skills. Students will complete a senior group research project and a major account sales project. Professional dress code from business-casual to full-business attire required based on the scheduled day-to-day activity.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Construct a complete selling and sales management program (term project).
2.  Demonstrate the ability to analyze selling and sales management situations, and apply skills to solving selling and sales management problems and developing effective selling strategies (exams; quizzes; class exercises).
3.  Identify how diversity, ethical, global, and multicultural considerations affect the selling and sales management decision-making processes (exams; class exercises).
4.  Demonstrate effectively communication skills by the presentation of a research project in an oral presentation and in a written paper (term project presentations and project updates).




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Selling & Sales Management

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CSR 41500 Minimum Grade of D-


