PHRM 87400 - Interprofessional Education (IPE) Experience V

Credit Hours: 0.50.  An Interprofessional Learning Anchor (IPLA) is a common event or experience in which all P1-P4 students will participate. The purpose of this course is to provide first through fourth professional year students with an interprofessional education (IPE) activity, and expose them to concepts related to interprofessional care and practice. The course will also involve interaction and collaboration with students and professionals from other healthcare disciplines (i.e medicine, nursing, social work, physical therapy, dentistry and others). This course will feature one to three components offered over the Fall and/or Spring academic semesters.

    0.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Continue Purdue College of Pharmacy as a dependable, respected, and valued partner in interprofessional practice and education at the school, university, state, national, and international levels.
2.  Establish interprofessional education as an established core activity for all Doctor of Pharmacy students in the Purdue College of Pharmacy.
3.  Develop professional leadership to support the establishment, expansion, continuation, and improvement of interprofessional practice and education.
4.  Design, implement, and evaluate educational programs in which teamwork, shared learning, and collaborative practice are explicitly connected to improve individual and population health outcomes.
5.  Assess and expand community and practice interprofessional partnerships that include learners as a resource to improve individual and population health.
6.  Lead scholarship initiatives related to interprofessional education on non-academic medical center campuses.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Corequisites: 

PHRM 86200


