NUR 64100 - Principles Of Epidemiology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will provide the student with an introduction to epidemiology - the study of the distribution and determinants of health status. This course focuses on application of epidemiologic descriptive and analytic study as it relates to the distribution and determinants of health status. Topics will include the scope and history of epidemiology, basic quantitative methods and measures used in the field, and an introduction to the design and implementation of epidemiological studies. The course will also include the examination of cases from infectious disease, various forms of applied epidemiology (e.g., clinical and field epidemiology), surveillance/screening tests, types of epidemiological studies, concepts of disease transmission, and causality. Prerequisites: At least one undergraduate or graduate level statistics course. Permission of department required. Typically offered Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Interpret results of statistical analyses found in public health studies (and in any medically related study where epidemiological statistics are reported).
2.  Develop written and oral presentations based on statistical analyses for both health professionals and educated lay audiences.
3.  Identify key sources of data for epidemiological purposes.
4.  Identify the principles and limitations of public health/medical screening programs.
5.  Describe a public health/nursing problem in terms of magnitude, person, place, and time.
6.  Explain the importance of epidemiology for informing scientific, ethical, economic, and political discussions of health issues.
7.  Comprehend basic, ethical, and legal principles of pertaining to the collection, use, and dissemination of epidemiological data.
8.  Apply the basic terminology and definitions of epidemiology.
9.  Calculate basic epidemiology measures/statistics.
10.  Communicate epidemiologic information to lay and professional audiences by understanding the meaning of a constant and know which constant to use under a given circumstance.
11.  Draw appropriate inferences and conclusions from epidemiologic data based on the descriptive information presented and/or the epidemiological measure/statistic used.
12.  Evaluate the strengths and limitations of epidemiologic reports and recognize when incorrect terminology is used and erroneous conclusions are drawn, which is commonplace.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


