EDPS 41001 - Collaboration And Transition Practices For Individuals With Disabilities

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course addresses the professional collaborative practices for special educators, who work with school age students with disabilities.  The topics of this course include collaboration with professionals, ancillary personnel, agencies, and families, problem-solving and dealing with conflict, co-teaching, and transition planning from early intervention to post-secondary settings.  The possible products from this course include community resources, transition plans, co-teaching plans, and family interviews.  No undergraduate student may be enrolled in this undergraduate course until they have been admitted to the teacher education program and passed Gates A and B.  Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Become familiar with the legal requirements of IDEA and other related laws, both federal and state as they relate to collaboration and transition.
2.  Demonstrate proficiency in writing and interpreting transition plans.
3.  Demonstrate knowledge in the use of both formal and informal assessments in determining student transition needs and supports.
4.  Develop comprehensive plans for community-based instruction (including ecological inventories, site analyses, site development, instructional strategies, behavior management plans, data collection).
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of interagency collaboration, professional development, and community resource development for the purpose of providing effective transition services.
6.  Demonstrate a basic understanding of the government benefits (e.g., SSI, AFDC) for which persons with disabilities may be eligible.  They will be familiar with the impact of work or other financial resources on maintaining these benefits.
7.  Know about accessing and implementing information related to school and post-school private resources for persons with disabilities in the areas of government benefits, vocational services, estate planning, independent living, social and recreational services, transportation services, community integration and related services.
8.  Demonstrate an understanding of the issues and barriers encountered by students, parents, and service providers as students with disabilities transition between grade and school levels.  
9.  Identify solutions to issues and barriers for all parties as individuals with disabilities transition through grade and school levels.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Special Ed/Elem Education


