HTM 29102 - Introduction To Foodservice Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  An introduction to food preparation methods and service techniques in quantity food settings. Students become familiar with ingredients and culinary terminology, and learn to read, write and evaluate menus. Recipe conversion, inventory and costing skills are developed. Production methods, equipment, and product flow are examined. Front-of-the-house service techniques as well as front-and-back-of-the-house interactions will be studied.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe kitchen operations including culinary terminology, basic cooking methods, equipment and technology, and basic food handling skills, such as food preparation, safety, and quality.
2.  Describe service techniques including a la carte and buffet setup and service, cycle of service (ordering through payment), tableside cooking and service recovery.
3.  Describe and demonstrate proper kitchen management systems, such as cost control, inventory control, sales history, and menu development.
4.  Explain the importance of timing and quality production in regards to the distribution of goods and services.
5.  Describe the relationship between international foods and factors, such as geography, climate, and culture.
6.  Identify current foodservice trends, such as: healthy food, menu labelling, and sustainability.
7.  Discriminate between ethical and non-ethical behavior on the part of individuals and organizations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Coordinated Dietetics

      Didactic Dietetics

      Dietetics/NutrFitness & Hlth

      Family & Consumer Science Educ

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Corequisites: 

HTM 29101


