AT 12700 - Publications Records And Regulations

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Required for AET. This course provides students with the concepts, and information to understand the regulations and publications specific to aviation and aerospace vehicle repair and maintenance. The privileges and limitations of the 14 CFR Part 65 airmen certificates are covered, as well as the regulations governing repair facilities and repair stations. The specific forms and records, and the proper disposition of those records are covered. In addition, aircraft technical drawings and prints are examined and the student is to develop the ability to read and comprehend aircraft drawings, as well as make drawings/sketches for vehicle repair and/or alteration. Precision measuring equipment is covered as is the hardware specific to aviation and aerospace. Inspection procedures and conformity checks are covered. Engine run up operations for inspection purpose are covered. This course teaches topics in the curriculum required by 14 CFR Part 147 as outlined in the School of Aviation and Transportation Technology's Part 147 Operations Manual approved by the FAA, and provides specific knowledge and skills needed for FAA certification examinations.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Aviation Technology 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify the privileges and limitations of their 14 CFR Part 65 certificates.
2.  Complete all appropriate forms and records related to aircraft maintenance and repair operations.
3.  Solve problems and answer technical questions using these materials.
4.  Read and interpret the output of precision measuring devices and be able to take precision measurements.
5.  Identify various  types of AN, MS, and NAS hardware, and understand the appropriate use of aircraft hardware.
6.  Start, operate, and functionally check a reciprocating engine.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Aeronautic Engr Technology


