BCM 51000 - Topics In Environmentally Sustainable Construction, Design And Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course explores environmental sustainability in all its forms, starting with the historical and theoretical basis and continuing through an understanding of sustainable building construction, design, development, and renewable energy strategies/management tools and how these can be applied in practice.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Schl of Construction Mgmt Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize human population trends and their effects on associated resource demands.
2.  Identify and evaluate energy use trends, including status quo, business-as-usual (BAU) and alternative production and delivery approaches.
3.  Interpret and analyze regional and global climate trends and implications, including policy alternatives.
4.  Illustrate economic and social drivers, including triple bottom line business practices.
5.  Discuss trends and management alternatives in land and ocean ecosystems.
6.  Examine food and water security issues including production, management, and distribution alternatives.
7.  Distinguish behavior psychology including examination of constraints and opportunities for sustainable practices.
8.  Compare market and other incentives designed to stimulate best practices for building design and community planning.
9.  Demonstrate knowledge of the conceptual history and controversies involving sustainability.
10.  Apply current sustainability principles.
11.  Debate common sustainability issues from multiple perspectives.
12.  Recognize uncertainty envelopes and constraints on predictive knowledge.
13.  Apply best practices in sustainability to their specific field of interest.
14.  Employ interdisciplinary approaches to sustainability outside of their own field.
15.  Recognize the challenges and opportunities of applying science and technology to governance.
16.  Formulate messaging skills needed to deliver scientific information to popular audiences.
17.  Practice abstract theoretical evaluation of sustainability challenges and solutions.
18.  Employ critical reading and writing skills within scientific, policy and popular media.
19.  Prepare action research projects to transform sector-specific practices for sustainability.
20.  Construct a broad range of delivery and assessment strategies to support change for sustainability.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


