PHIL 56100 - Reading Philosophy: Skills And Strategies

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Repeatable twice for a maximum of 9 credits. Academic philosophy demands both the ability to read large amounts of texts fluently, carefully, and closely. Furthermore, the abstract nature of philosophical discourse places a large cognitive demand upon readers. This course prepares non-native English speakers philosophy students for these intensive reading demands. The course has three major learning areas:  the language skills that students need to read fluently (i.e., the efficient processing of language for general comprehension of meaning); reading strategies that students can use to improve comprehension and learning; and communication about readings, as the close reading of texts is essential to communicating one's ideas both orally and in writing. Students are also supported in their regular philosophy courses. This course is linked to one or more 500+ level philosophy seminars that students in this course are enrolled in. Reading materials, writing activities, and projects for the course are designed to complement tasks and projects required in the linked philosophy seminar. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times for a maximum of 9 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Read un-simplified prose more fluently (i.e., improved rate, accuracy, and expression).
2.  Apply reading strategies to improve reading comprehension of philosophical texts.
3.  Define and expand core vocabulary of philosophical discourse and academic discourse.
4.  Identify genre, rhetorical features, and stylistic elements of philosophical texts to aid reading comprehension and fluency.
5.  Discuss philosophical texts in a classroom setting.
6.  Improve speaking skills, including circumlocution, pronunciation, attention to body language, affect, and more, in classroom discussions and formal presentations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  PHIL 57100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


