MGMT 49400 - IBE Capstone

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The objective of the IBE Capstone course is to provide students with the opportunity to apply and integrate what they have learned from prior courses in "Real World" settings. There are no traditional classes. Rather, students will work in self-managed teams of 5-6 on projects that have both business and engineering elements with the support of a mentor; in many cases the mentor will be from a sponsoring company. The role of the company mentor is to provide advice and guidance to the student team as well as to expose the students to the approaches and processes used in industrial and commercial organizations. The course instructors will also meet with the student teams on a weekly basis to assess progress and provide guidance. Possible options for the projects include: "Product Design" and "Business Solution". The Product Design projects would be focused on the marketing, technical, and economic feasibility of a new product concept. The Business Solution projects would be focused on technical issues in a business context and developing solutions to a "real world" problem presented by a sponsoring company. Examples of these projects might include use of 3-D printing for spare and replacement parts or incorporation of autonomous transportation into a company's operations and supply chain. Typically Offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Exhibit integrity, accept responsibility, take initiative, and provide leadership necessary to ensure project success.
2.  Produce product designs or business solutions that meet important performance requirements while satisfying relevant societal, legal/regulatory, and professional constraints.
3.  Establish relationships and implement practices with team members, advisors, and other stakeholders that support high performance and continuous improvement.
4.  Plan, monitor, and manage project schedule, resources, and work assignments to ensure successful project completion.
5.  Utilize and synthesize prior knowledge, independent research, published information, and original ideas in addressing problems and generating solutions.
6.  Make decisions based on customer and user needs, product design or business solution requirements, resource availability, and associated risks.
7.  Demonstrate effective use of contemporary tools for engineering and business analysis.
8.  Test and defend performance of a product design or business solution with respect to key requirements.
9.  Use formal and informal communications with team, advisor, and other stakeholders to document and facilitate progress and to enhance impact of design products.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Integrated Business Engr-BS


