HDFS 26000 - Young Children With Exceptional Needs

Credit Hours: 3.00. A broad overview of learner characteristics and service delivery models for young children (birth-8 years) who are at-risk or have identified disabilities. Students gain understanding of disabilities in young children, of laws relating to persons with disabilities, and roles of special and general educators in providing services to students with identified disabilities. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Human Dev and Family Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. The student will demonstrate knowledge of: (a) Philosophical, historical, and legal foundations of special education. (b) How principles of development, motivation, behavioral and cognitive learning theories are related to learner differences. (c) Characteristics of learners with exceptionalities, including individual and group diversity that may impact learning. (d) Issues related to environmental and personal barriers that hinder accessibility and acceptance of persons with disabilities and their families. (e) Applicable laws, rules and regulations, and procedural safeguards regarding the planning and implementation of early children special education interventions, including management of behaviors, of children with special learning needs. (f) Issues related to teacher professionalism and ethical practice. 

2. The student will demonstrate skills to: (a) Articulate current issues in special education. (b) Define and describe and characteristics of learners with exceptionalities. 

3.  The student will demonstrate appropriate dispositions regarding: (a) The right of all children through the age of 21 to receive a free and appropriate public education.  (b) Access to the natural environment and to the general curriculum as the starting point for special education and early intervention services. 




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      ECE and Exceptional Needs


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HDFS 21000 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


