EDPS 57600 - Curricula For Learners With Intense Intervention Needs

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will explore research-supported general and specialized content-area (reading, Math, Writing, Science, Social Studies) curricula as well as functional and independent skill curricula to prepare candidates to design and/or adapt instructional lessons and materials to meet the needs of students with intense intervention needs.


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply principles of UDL when selecting, adapting, and modifying assessments to accommodate student(s) with intense intervention needs, including students who are nonverbal or English Learners.
2.  Evaluate research-supported instructional strategies and materials appropriate to the strengths, needs, and characteristics of students with intense exceptional needs.
3.  Apply strategies to work effectively with general education teachers and support staff to provide services that incorporate differentiated instruction, transition, assessments, and assistive technology that facilitate student learning and the students' learning environment.
4.  Create lesson plans, based on national, state, and/or local curricula standards and the scope and sequence of grade-level/chronologically-aged appropriate general education content-area curriculum (Reading, Math, Writing, Science, Social Studies) that incorporate UDL, research-supported instructional strategies and material, and provide meaning-filled learning opportunities that facilitate students' ability to make connections and generalize across settings.
5.  Create lesson plant to provide specially designed functional skill instruction (explicit and systematic), that incorporates UDL, research-supported instructional strategies and materials, and provides meaning-filled learning opportunities to facilitate generalization across settings.
6.  Evaluate instruction, monitor progress, and make instructional changes to support student learning.
7.  Analyze a variety of language and communication strategies (AAC/Assistive Technologies) to increase functional communication.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-EDPS 52000 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
EDPS
52000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



