CEM 45600 - Design-Build Project Delivery Method For Engineers

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course presents traditional project delivery methods and contrasts them with design-build project delivery. The course focuses on the principles, tools, and procedures used in the design-build project delivery method. It provides students with sufficient education to become certified (following additional examination) by the Design Build Institute of America as an Associate Member and dependent on employment experience, a full Member. Traditional project delivery methods, Design-Bid-Build, Construction Manager as Agent, `Fast Track', and other `rip and read' methods are losing popularity to project delivery methods that take a more collaborative approach. Collaboration requires a different way of thinking about a capital construction project and working with others in project delivery. Constructors must move from a transactional, arms-length relationship where the project is viewed as a low-price commodity to a full-suite delivery of services resulting in a high-value product. This requires collaboration with the Owner and other members of the project delivery process, something that has been missing from traditional project delivery methods. Active student participation is required. Student participation will be facilitated through assigned presentations, in-class projects, field trips to local projects, and guest lectures. Students who complete the course and achieve DBIA's minimum requirements (Fundamentals of Project Delivery, Principles of Design-Building Project Delivery, Post Award, and Contracts & Risk Management) will be eligible for recognition by DBIA.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the attributes of all major project delivery methods, procurement methodologies, and contracting approaches.
2.  Identify the appropriate project delivery method based on owner requirements.
3.  Evaluate the attributes of design-build project delivery.
4.  Assess the critical elements of the request for qualifications/request for proposals (RFQ/RFP) process and overall project management for design-build projects.
5.  Understand the risk management and contract implications of a design-build project versus other project delivery methods.
6.  Apply the attributes learned in this course to case studies.
7.  Be prepared to be a meaningful participant on a real design-build project.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CEM 20100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CE 22200 Minimum Grade of C-


