EDPS 20001 - Special Populations Seminar: Focus On Students With Disabilities And Differentiation Approaches

Credit Hours: 1.00.  (EDCI 20001) This seminar is focused on special populations of learners for teacher education majors with an emphasis on exceptional students and approaches to curricular differentiation. Students will engage in mentoring activities and ongoing support in their development as a professional. The goal of the seminar is to connect theory to practice by engaging in an immersive field experience that connects to content and courses taken concurrently. The seminar provides an environment conducive to fostering rich relationships with schools and communities, pursuing common inquiry, thinking critically about theory, content and practice and advocating for equitable schooling. This seminar includes a field experience targeting schools and classrooms including exceptional students. This seminar is intended to be taken concurrently with EDPS 24800 and EDPS 26501. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify key educational theories and describe practices for implementation across various educational field placements.
2.  Discuss and use culturally responsive teaching and communication practices. 
3.  Reflect on their own learning and the learning of others, gaining insight into themselves, into teaching/learning, and into issues of diversity, equity and social justice.
4.  Complete a minimum of 30 hours in the required field experience setting.
5.  Demonstrate professional attitudes and conduct that facilitate learning and convey a positive image of the education profession.



Corequisites: 

EDPS 24800

EDPS 26501


