NUR 41701 - Leadership In Nursing

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Studies the components of nursing leadership and management functions with an emphasis on critical thinking, problem solving, communication, and team building within the context of experiential problem-based group projects.  This course will provide specific practice and evaluation of strategic and financial planning, conflict management, delegation, and complex change.  Competencies to be gained, at a novice level, include professional communication, sound ethical and legal judgments within personal and organizational frameworks, leadership skills in the management and evaluation of others, and an understanding of the drivers of healthcare change and finances.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Evaluate the interrelatedness of leadership and management functions in promoting quality care and a safe environment.
2. Effectively delegate, supervise, and evaluate members of the healthcare team with an awareness of ethical, professional, social, and legal issues implicit to nursing leadership and management.
3. Critically assess management process strategies for evaluating problems, exploring solutions, and promoting success within an organizational context.
4. Evaluate quality improvement initiatives, evidence-based practices, healthcare policies, and cultural factors which influence human behavior and healthcare delivery.
5. Relate basic organizational structure, mission, vision, philosophy, and values to organizational and systems leadership.
6. Evaluate the impact of professional and unprofessional behaviors, including written and oral communication, on healthcare delivery and professional interactions.
7. Participate in the development and implementation of inter-professional teams to support system and project development and change.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 31401 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31501 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31701 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31801 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C


