HK 58300 - Patient Care Simulation In Athletic Training I

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course is designed to refine psychomotor skills and apply specific athletic training proficiencies integrating cognitive concepts and skills into progressively higher-level practical application. Skill integration will be achieved through successful completion and evaluation of patient care scenarios with emphasis placed on clinical reasoning skills of the student while making point of care decisions. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Evaluate a patient and then select and apply appropriate taping applications for injury reduction and prevention.
2.  Select and apply protective equipment for use by active individuals participating in sport.
3.  Apply specialty taping procedures in response to patient indications and treatment goals.
4.  Perform a primary and secondary patient assessment for a patient in an emergency situation.
5.  Obtain and evaluate vital signs including pulse, respirations, blood pressure, core body temperature, and oxygen saturation.
6.  Differentiate and select from the different types of airway adjuncts to demonstrate airway management.
7.  Use the indications and treatment parameters in an emergency situation to determine appropriateness of supplemental oxygen administration.
8.  Administer supplemental oxygen to patients in an emergency situation.
9.  Create a management plan of external hemorrhage and apply this emergent and non-emergent situations.
10.  Consider and select proper immobilization and transfer techniques for a patient using a spine board.
11.  Evaluate techniques for removing equipment and clothing to access an airway or evaluate an injured part and select the most appropriate for a given situation.
12.  Apply corrective intervention techniques for the management of medical and sudden illness such as sudden cardiac arrest, asthma, shock, diabetic emergencies, burns, anaphylaxis, and internal bleeding. 13.  Analyze patients and institute a management plan for patients in an environmental emergency.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 50600 Minimum Grade of B-


