NUR 41501 - Public Health Nursing

Credit Hours: 5.00.  Utilize health promotion, maintenance, education and disease prevention in coordinating and providing population-focused care to individuals, families and aggregates in the community.  A variety of clinical settings are used to offer students a broad, comprehensive perspective of public health nursing, a field that synthesizes content from nursing, social and public health sciences.  Collaboration with the community and implementation of population-focused interventions foster critical thinking and independent decision making in the delivery of nursing care.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Synthesize concepts, theories, knowledge and practice from nursing, social and public health sciences.
2.  Examine the structure, function, and influence of historical, political, social, environmental, cultural, and ethical factors to the health of individuals, families, and communities.
3.  Collaborate with interdisciplinary healthcare and human service providers to address the health needs of individuals, families, and communities.
4.  Utilize principles, concepts, models, theories and research to guide culturally sensitive nursing care and public health practice of individuals, families, and communities.
5.  Explore the delivery of public health nursing services to diverse and vulnerable populations.
6.  Formulate client teaching strategies that address the principles of disease prevention and health promotion to clients across the lifespan.
7.  Evaluate interventions implemented using community and family resources to address mutually identified health needs of clients.
8.  Use principles of caseload management, in the delivery of safe, quality public health nursing services that reflect legal, ethical, and professional standards.
9.  Apply national health objectives in planning interventions to meet the individual, system, and community level needs of diverse populations.
10.Utilize health care technology to improve health outcomes of individuals, families, and communities.
11.Integrate the role of advocacy into the delivery of care to individuals, families, and communities.






Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 31401 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31501 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31701 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31801 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 41401 Minimum Grade of C [may be taken concurrently]


