TECH 34000 - Prototyping Technology For People

Credit Hours: 3.00. Innovating in our complex world requires us to think strategically and make the best decisions possible for both designing and business development. Accordingly, this unique course brings together perspectives from technology and business management to iteratively prototype innovative solutions to student-selected problems. This process will include creating prototypes in a variety of media, using the appropriate methods/tools, as well as exploring the processes and biases related to how people process information and make decisions. This type of work will help to guide the innovation process by gaining insights from testing prototypes and interacting with people to deepen one’s understanding of customer needs, market segments, costs of goods, competitor operations, and market strategies. At the conclusion of the course, students will pitch a viable design solution and business model for a validated problem to a variety of potential investors and/or stakeholders. Note: This class engages the material in both the classroom and innovation labs. Students of all levels of experience, will explore tools/programs related to computer aided design, 3D printing, app development, and digital prototyping.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Purdue Polytechnic Inst Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize biases in how people process information, conducting user tests and interviews to gain insights from prototypes to make business development decisions.
2.  Engage in decision-making strategies to develop prototypes in a variety of media (digital and/or physical) for the level of fidelity necessary to communicate, understand, and test innovative ideas/designs.
3.  Select and use appropriate methods/tools/equipment to make decisions and prototype innovative ideas.
4.  Revise designs to reflect a deepening understanding of customer needs, market segments, costs of goods, competitor operations, and market strategies.
5.  Pitch a viable design solution/business model for a validated problem to a variety of potential investors and/or stakeholders. 




Prerequisites: 

 


