ENGR 14200 - Honors Creativity And Innovation In Engineering Design II

Credit Hours: 3.50. This course continues building on the foundation developed in ENGR 14100. Students take a more in depth and holistic approach to integrating multiple disciplines perspectives while constructing innovative engineering solutions to open-ended problems. The students extend and continue to develop skills in project management, engineering fundamentals, oral and graphical communication, logical thinking, team work, and modern engineering tools (e.g., C, Excel, LabView, MATLAB, and Python). Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Studio 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: Honors, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe, in greater depth, the engineering disciplines at Purdue and the interrelationships among them as well as know what graduates of at least three disciplines of engineering do. 
2.  Apply engineering fundamentals and basic engineering science concepts to create feasible engineering solutions that are justifiable.
3.  Use a problem identification process to create written engineering criteria to satisfy a problem. 
4.  Use an engineering formulation and solving process to translate an engineering scenario into a mathematical model. 
5.  Explain how an engineering problem solving process relates to a design process. 
6.  Design a process to communicate technical information orally and visually and demonstrate skills for cross-cultural communication. 
7.  Further development of strategies to facilitate generating creative ideas for complex design challenges. 
8.  Apply an engineering problem solving and design process to: generate ideas, model, analyze, predict, and build an innovative object of engineering interest taking into consideration its societal and environmental impact. 
9.  Implement complex algorithmic solutions to engineering problems/designs using the most appropriate computer tool (C , Excel, LABVIEW, MATLAB, and Python) and be able to explain your rationale for your choice. 
10. Apply a systems approach in solving engineering problems and in undertaking design projects.
11. Synthesize your knowledge of effective and ethical membership on a technical team (i.e., teaming skills) to appropriately behavior.
12  Exhibit a work ethic appropriate for the engineering profession.  




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      First Year Engineering

      Pre Agr & Biol Engineering

Must be assigned to one of the following Cohorts:      

      Honors College


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  ENGR 14100 Minimum Grade of C-


