BIOL 14501 - First Year Biology Laboratory With Neuro Research Project

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This laboratory course has been designed under the goals of the Center for Authentic Science Practice in Education (CASPiE) which aims to expose students to novel research as a means to teach them laboratory science. This course is designed to engage students in authentic research while acquiring necessary skills and concepts to be successful as a biology major. Our topic is Neuroanatomy of Auditory Pathways. We will begin with a series of skills and knowledge building weeks and then transition into independent research projects that culminate in a public presentation of the data in a poster session. In this course, students will learn the fundamentals in neurobiology as well as use sophisticated analysis and instrumentation to answer a research question. Critical thinking in experimental design as well as interpretation and communication of data will be stressed. The goals for this course are to gain a foundation in basic biological measurements and techniques, hone the analytical skills, appreciate the excitement of scientific discovery, and have fun along the way. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Science, UC-Science 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
2.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
3.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
4.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, commuinication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
5.  Students will learn to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
6.  Students will use and understand the scientific method, including how to generate hypotheses and predictions, develop an experimental design, collect data, statistically analyze data, and interpret results.



Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 12100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  BIOL 13100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11500 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 10901 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  CHM 12901 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


