MGMT 52300 - Digital Marketing Strategy

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course enables students to rethink marketing in the evolving digital age and develop capabilities in developing, implementing, and evaluating digital marketing strategies. Topics include: digital marketing strategy framework, search engine marketing, social media marketing, and location based marketing (mobile). Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: School of Management 

Department: School of Mgmt Adm & Instr 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Enable students to rethink marketing in the evolving digital and social media age.
2.  Understand how digital and social media marketing strategies fit with companies' overall marketing strategy.
3.  Learn to develop, implement, and evaluate digital and social media marketing plan.
4.  Understand the major tools of digital and social media marketing: online ads, search engine optimization, paid search ads, organic social media, social media ads, web analytics, and social media analytics, and others.
5.  Explore the future development of digital marketing.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Economics-CPOSTB

      Economics-MA Teaching

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-MS

      Economics-PHD

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management-CPOSTB

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MBA

      Management-MS

      Management-MS

      Management-PHD

      Management Exec-MBA

      Management Exec-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      International Mgmt Masters-MBA

      Org Behav HR Mgmt-PHD

      Economics-CPOSTB

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-MGMT 62000 Course


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
MGMT
62000


Minimum Grade of 
C

May not be taken concurrently.
)



