SFS 30200 - Principles Of Sustainability

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Principles of sustainability is an experiential (discussion/debate) course that delivers an expansive overview of the principles of sustainability as they relate to energy and resources, communities, and agriculture. Students will learn to understand and analyze different food and farming systems and how they relate to environmental, economic and social sustainability.  Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Hort & Landscape Architecture 


Course Attributes: Justice-Eqty-Divrsty-Inclusion, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Know the global carbon cycle and understand the greenhouse effect.
2.  Understand the concepts of the individual, populations, communities, ecosystems and biomes.
3.  Understand the ecological processes of vegetation succession.
4.  Understand the role of crop rotations, cover crops and other land management methods.
5.  Understand the pathways of nutrient cycling in the soil and the biosphere; e.g. N, P, C cycles.
6.  Have a broad understanding of the principles of sustainability, including agricultural sustainability.
7.  Understand the importance of energy in society and in agricultural production systems.
8.  Understand the importance of natural resources in society and in agricultural production, and the principles of their conservation.
9.  Have a broad awareness of the role of agriculture in global society.
10.  Understand the advantages and disadvantages of different approaches to food production.
11.  Understand the principles of food marketing and sales.
12.  Be able to communicate effectively verbally, including being able to prepare and deliver effective scientific papers and presentations.
13.  Be able to perform, analyze and discuss supervised experiments.
14.  Be able to conduct a competent literature search, including a search for primary literature, and also including the ability to find and assimilate information that will broaden understanding of subject areas by accessing material that is not specifically taught in class.
15.  Be able to handle multiple tasks and deadline pressures.
16.  Be able to work effectively with individuals from diverse cultures.
17.  Have strong professional ethics and integrity.
18.  Understand the importance of developing leadership skills.
19.  Be able to work effectively in teams.




