VM 84000 - Applications And Integrations III

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course uses a small group tutorial, problem-oriented approach to understanding how basic science concepts are integrated into clinical aspects of veterinary medicine. Students are expected to identify learning issues, resolve identified gaps in their knowledge base, integrate information across disciplines, and practice/develop problem- solving skills using simulated case materials. Evaluation of students will be based upon, tutorial group evaluation, peer evaluation, self-evaluation, and a comprehensive content and process evaluation, which will include materials from previous classes (VM 82000/83000 and other freshman DVM courses) as well as the current DVM coursework (hematology, parasitology, bacteriology, pharmacology and pathology). Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: College of Veterinary Med Admn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Increase the student's responsibility for his/her own learning and instill in each student a sense of commitment to and enthusiasm for his/her own education. 
2.  Improve the student's retention of learned information for a longer period of time by providing a forum in which students have to integrate information from multiple disciplines in order to solve a problem. 
3.  Improve the student's understanding of how the basic science material provides the foundation for solving problems, thereby increasing the students perception of relevance, motivation and retention of basic science information. 
4.  Create a continuum from the pre-clinical curriculum into the clinical curriculum so that students are exposed to clinical information earlier while simultaneously reinforcing basic science concepts later in the curriculum. 
5.  Help students develop the skills of acquiring and integrating information and applying the information to solve a problem early in the curriculum, and provide continued opportunities to practice and refine that skill. 
6.  Practice the problem-solving method of hypothesis formulation/speculation, investigation, refinement, and conclusion/diagnosis. 
7.  Increase the student's awareness of the ethical and societal issues in veterinary medicine through discussion of the ethical, legal, and socioeconomic ramifications of the clinical cases presented. 
8.  Foster the development of self-assessment skills and appropriate habits for expanding both knowledge and skills. 
9.  Encourage students to develop good teamwork skills, interpersonal communication skills, and the skills needed to work cooperatively with peers of differing backgrounds, career orientations, and personalities.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  VM 83000 Minimum Grade of D-


