PHRM 84400 - Integrated Pharmacotherapy II

Credit Hours: 6.00.  This course will provide an integrated approach to instruct the students in physiology, pathophysiology, pharmacology, medicinal chemistry, and therapeutics relevant to diseases of the endocrine and cardiovascular systems.  When applicable, special emphasis will be placed on presenting the interrelationships between deficits in endocrine function and cardiovascular disease.  In addition, students will study and critique current therapeutic approaches and opinions in the application of replacement therapy with natural, synthetic, or recombinant hormone preparations.  Typically offered Fall.

    6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Know basic anatomy/physiology.
2.  Know Pathophysiology.
3.  Know diagnostic methods and decision making.
4.  Know Principles of pharmacology.
5.  Know relationships between chemical structure and biological activity.
6.  Know delivery of drugs from various dosage forms.
7.  Know Pharmacotherapy.
8.  Know Drug interactions.
9.  Know Treatment guidelines.
10.  Know basic principles of drug design and the chemical and biochemical mechanisms of drug action.
11.  Know the relevance of molecular biology, biochemistry, immunology, and pharmacogenomics and apply key principles to disease states and therapeutics.
12.  Perform error-free mathematical calculations with regard to drug dosing and pharmacokinetics.
13.  Provide patient-centered pharmaceutical care.
14.  Promote health improvement and disease prevention.
15.  Evaluate patient data, literature sources, and drug products.
16.  Provide specific, sound, cost effective, evidenced-based drug and healthcare recommendations.
17.  Design, implement, and evaluate patient specific pharmacotherapeutic regimens.
18.  Select the proper drug, dose, and dosage form for a specific patient.
19.  Design strategies to monitor patients’ drug regimens for therapeutic and toxic effects of medications.
20.  Design strategies to avoid or manage drug interactions and adverse drug events.
21.  Identify and implement strategies to encourage patient adherence to therapeutic interventions.
22.  Synthesize information in order to draw logical conclusions.
23.  Provide evidence-based support for arguments, recommendations, and solutions.
24.  Demonstrate the ability to make sound decisions given complex scenarios in a time-constrained environment.
25.  Present information to colleagues and other healthcare practitioners, and the general public, regarding drug therapy and related topics.
26.  Demonstrate awareness of key issues and debates in healthcare.
27.  Demonstrate cultural competence that includes awareness of the impact that cultural, social, and ethnic differences can play in the provision of healthcare and the workplace.
28.  Discuss and remain open to differences of opinion and defend rational opinions that differ from those of other healthcare professionals.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 82500 Minimum Grade of C-


