HK 54000 - Evaluation And Management Of The Spine And Head

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Course covering an in-depth study of the normal anatomical structures in the spine and head, including joint structure and musculoskeletal/nervous systems. Also discussed are common risk factors and causes of injuries as identified by contemporary epidemiological studies, common injuries to each body part, typical symptoms, and common clinical signs associated with injuries and illnesses with the physically active. A lab covering the assessment and management techniques for injuries commonly seen will be included. Permission of department required. Typically offered Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify specific anatomical structures such as bony landmarks, soft tissue and joint structures in the spine and head.
2.  Apply different methods of prevention for many injuries commonly seen in the spine and head.
3.  Differentiate common risk factors and causes of injury commonly seen in athletics and the physically active.
4.  Evaluate gender differences in the musculoskeletal system and their impact on injury management for the spine and head.
5.  Consider anatomical growth and development characteristics of males and females in the following stages: pre-adolescent and adolescent.
6.  Develop general treatment and rehabilitation protocols to use with injuries in the spine and head.
7.  Summarize the role and function of commonly used prescription and non-prescription pharmacological agents in the treatment of Injuries/illness commonly seen in the spine and head.
8.  Demonstrate through low fidelity simulation sound evaluation techniques of lower extremity.
9.  Appraise the different psychomotor test characteristics -validity, reliability, sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, odds ratios, etc., as they relate to selection of special tests.
10.  Synthesize test psychometric data to select appropriate tests and measures during assessment.
11.  Formulate a clinical question and perform a literature search to answer the question.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 52000 Minimum Grade of B- and Graduate level  HK 53000 Minimum Grade of B-


