EDCI 52001 - Curriculum And Instruction Online MS Seminar I

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This boot camp is designed to help you to understand the knowledge and skills necessary for your successful online learning in the Curriculum and Instruction program. In this orientation, you will explore what online learning entails and reflect on how you can best set yourself up to succeed in your studies. You will also learn about various learning strategies and online resources that you can utilize in your courses. In this seminar, you will be responsible for completing all assignments on time over the course of the semester. Read the guidelines for each week and complete the assignments. NOTE: This course is a core course in the C&I online masters program. A grade of B- or better is required (if a lower grade is received, the course must be retaken). Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Exhibit knowledge of academic integrity by completing plagiarism, statement of commitment, and APA tutorials.
2.  Effectively explain your professional goals for the program by writing an initial reflection.
3.  Identify essential components of the Curriculum and Instruction Handbook, including what is required for the final portfolio.
4.  Develop and apply group project skills and management techniques to make you successful in future courses and your career.
5.  Demonstrate digital skills and competence with various digital tools (i.e., blogs, screencasting, Google docs, file sharing).
6.  Be aware of current trends in the field of distance education and how they relate to your focus.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


