NUR 41401 - Pediatric Nursing

Credit Hours: 5.00.  Explores factors influencing the health and wellness of children and families.  Students will apply principles, concepts and research from the health and human sciences to the care of children and families across the health-illness continuum.  A structured clinical component focuses on clinical reasoning and evidence based practice.  Students will provide family centered care to healthy, at risk and ill children across a variety of clinical settings.  Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Integrate family theories; growth and development; genomics; environmental and psychosocial factors in the care of children across the health-illness continuum.
2. Integrate nursing concepts into evidence based nursing practice for children and families across a variety of health care settings.
3. Apply knowledge of information technologies to improve health outcomes of children and families.
4. Evaluate environmental and psychosocial risk factors for children and families.
5. Adapt nursing care to families, recognizing their diverse needs, ethnicity, culture, and values.
6. Evaluate the collaborative role of the nurse with other health care disciplines in the provision of comprehensive nursing care for healthy, at risk, and ill children.
7. Demonstrate a spirit of inquiry, responsibility and accountability within legal, ethical, professional and organizational parameters.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Nursing

      Accelerated Nursing


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  NUR 31401 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31501 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31601 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31701 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31801 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 41501 Minimum Grade of C [may be taken concurrently]


