EDPS 63100 - Applied Educational Research Design Seminar

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 3.00.  This seminar seeks to promote professionalism, research and scholarly productivity and collegial support among graduate students in gifted, creative (GCT), and talented studies, associated graduate students, visiting scholars, and interested others. A secondary purpose involves assisting GCT students, COE students, and associates with successful study and career preparation by focusing on research, grants, thesis preparation, graduate writing, proposal development, professional development, and degree completion. Finally, seminar offers students the opportunity to discuss, learn and mess around with current issues in the field and of personal interest. Seminar creates time and incentive for students to become more productive with their scholarship efforts, and offers students credit for work completed and formal support for the professional development and scholarship processes. In this course students should expect to attend, contribute, and participate. A variety of formats will be used, including, but not limited to: discussion, simulations, group work, lecture, guest speakers, and peer feedback. Prerequisite: EDPS 63000 and one graduate course in Statistics. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 TO     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Variable Title 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Engage with IRB process.
2.  Write for publication.
3.  Critically review and revise writing.
4.  Engage in research.
5.  Develop a professional vita.
6.  Write conference proposals.
7.  Create professional presentations.
8.  Review relevant literature.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


