CEM 30200 - Practical Applications For Construction Engineering

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course teaches practical applications of the theories, tools and skills taught in CEM 20100 and CEM 30100. Construction processes will be studied through hands on exercises working with actual contract plans and specifications and computerized project scheduling of the sample project that is the focus of the class. Topics that will be explored are Contract Format, Understanding Contract Specifications. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Construction Engineering Mgmt 

Department: Div of Constr Engr & Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
 1.  Ability to read, comprehend and interpret construction contract plans and specifications. Through hands on use of plans and specifications from an actual project, they will be
       taken through the process of using and understanding the various sections of the documents.
  2.  Identify and distinguish the different types of building construction project estimates and the role they play in the facility development process.
  3.  Demonstrate specific skills in the interpretation of construction plans and specifications, estimate planning and organization, quantity takeoffs and pricing, construction contracts
       labor and equipment productivity, conceptual estimating, bidding strategies, and overhead costs.
  4.  Ability to develop and utilize a computerized network schedule for the example construction project. Scheduling will address logic flow and contract status through data analysis of
       activities updates including resource and dollar loading.
  5.  Identify and use principal methods, tools, and techniques used to develop building construction project estimates and project schedules.



Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CEM 30100 Minimum Grade of D-


