ENGR 49001 - Breakthrough Thinking For Complex Challenges

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course helps students learn and effectively employ high-impact design principles and structured problem solving methods to address complex multi-stakeholder socio-technical challenges. Case discussions of historical and contemporary high impact solutions to complex challenges are used to introduce techniques to frame problems, structure ambiguity, intentionally design non-incremental solutions, and communicate, trial, and iterate solutions to drive adoption and multifaceted sustainability. Techniques are drawn from multiple schools of thought such as business, design, engineering, and the social sciences. Over the course of the term, multi-disciplinary student teams directly apply cumulative learning to address selected parts of a real-world complex societal challenge in close collaboration with a partner organization, in an experiential learning format. This course can be counted toward the College of Engineering Minor in Innovation and Transformational Change and the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship (BDMCE) Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation. Permission of instructor required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Employ rigorous issue analysis methods to develop mutually-exclusive collectively-exhaustive structured inventories of the issues involved in a major challenge.
2.  Understand stakeholder motivation and interpret the funds, services, and influence exchanged in stakeholder ecosystems.
3.  Understand the benefits and limitations of qualitative and quantitative methods to identify and interpret stakeholder needs.
4.  Gain familiarity with habit conversion methodologies and the role they can play in design activities.
5.  Recognize the importance of empathy in solution design and apply structured ideation methods to engender empathy in designers.
6.  Understand patterns of innovation success and the contextual circumstances in which they apply.
7.  Understand combinatorial business design methods to explore and prioritize alternative paths to achieve financial sustainability for an idea.
8.  Discern the broader societal impacts of design activities.
9.  Develop robust assessments of the assumptions underlying new ideas and means to test those assumptions rapidly and at low cost.
10.  Recognize and define influence paths and communication methods to drive awareness, consideration, conversion, and retention of new solutions




