BCHM 60300 - Introduction To Graduate Research In Biochemistry I

Credit Hours: 6.00.  This course is intended to provide the opportunity for in-depth, mentored graduate research in two biochemistry laboratories. Students enrolled in this course will learn how to devise hypothesis, design experiments that test their hypotheses, accurately record their data in laboratory notebooks, critically analyze the results of their analyses and present their findings to others in written and oral presentations. They will fully participate in laboratory group meetings, the Biochemistry seminar series, and presentations by other students and postdoctoral fellow. Co-requisites: BCHM 60100 and BCHM 60501. Permission of department required.

    0.000 OR     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Individual Study, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Biochemistry 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand the scientific method. Develop hypotheses, design experiments, and critically analyze results to create new knowledge.
2.  Communicate scientific knowledge, experiments and conclusions effectively as speakers and writers.
3.  Use scientific instrumentation to evaluate the activity or function of biological macromolecules.
4.  Demonstrate knowledge of analytical and preparative methods that can be applied to biochemistry.
5.  Demonstrate knowledge of accepted safe laboratory practices.
6.  Demonstrate laboratory experience working with a diverse group of individuals as part of a research team.
7.  Demonstrate the ability to organize and document laboratory procedures and results.
8.  Describe research projects in an oral presentation that can be readily understood by a general scientific audience.
9.  Appreciate the ethical issues facing professionals in the life sciences.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


