PHRM 85400 - Interprofessional Education (IPE) Experience III

Credit Hours: 0.50.  An Interprofessional Learning Anchor (IPLA) is a common event or experience in which all P1-P4 students will participate. The purpose of this course is to provide first through fourth professional year pharmacy students with an interprofessional education (IPE) activity, and expose them to concepts related to interprofessional care and practice. This course will also involve interaction and collaboration with students and professionals from other healthcare disciplines (i.e. medicine, nursing, social work, physical therapy, dentistry, and others). This course will feature one to three components offered over the Fall and/or Spring academic semesters.

    0.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Recognize similarities and differences in the "Code of Ethics" for two or more different professions.
2.  Consider how similarities and differences across professions influence caregivers' decisions and understanding of health and heath care priorities.
3.  Describe health and healthcare as inclusive of people, populations, and communities.
4.  Explain how everyone in the healthcare team shares accountability to improve prevention and healthcare outcomes.
5.  Demonstrate effective methods of communicating with team members to clarify each person's role and responsibilities.
6.  Discuss the importance of teamwork in person-centered and community-focused care.
7.  Demonstrate active listening, while encouraging ideas and opinions of others.
8.  Identify ways to improve team performance.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Second Year


