EDCI 64900 - Assessment In Career And Technical Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Goals and rationale for evaluation in education and work training contexts; assessment and measurement methods, techniques, and procedures; reliability, validity, and accuracy; construction and selection of instruments; data and information collection, analysis, and interpretation; meta evaluation; adaptations and modifications for special needs populations; and using assessment data and information.  Typically offered Fall Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Provide an overview of assessment in career and technical education and training programs.
2.  Identify goals and a rationale for evaluation.
3.  Explore contemporary assessment trends and practices.
4.  Develop an understanding of career assessment and measurement methods, techniques, and procedures in career and technical education and training.
5.  Examine several methods for estimating instrument reliability, validity, and accuracy.
6.  Develop skills in the construction, analysis, and selection of assessment and measurement instruments and procedures in career and technical education and training programs.
7.  Explore the ethical, psychological, political, social, economic, and educational issues related to assessment in career and technical education and training.
8.  Gain experience in the collection and analysis of assessment data and information.
9.  Develop skills in the evaluation of assessment and measurement instruments.
10.  Explore a variety of appropriate procedures to interpret, disseminate, and use assessment data and information in career and technical education and training programs. 



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


