HTM 29101 - Quantity Food Production And Service Laboratory

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Basic knowledge of foodservice operations. Students learn and develop food production and service skills in the Boiler Bistro and the John Purdue Room. Students are exposed to quantity cooking methods, the use and care of equipment, and service techniques as they rotate through various positions commonly found in foodservice operations. All aspects of the dining experience are experienced by students. National Sanitation Certification needed. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe and demonstrate the appropriate use of food ingredients and preparation methods.
2.  List, describe and demonstrate proper use, application , safety and cleaning of kitchen equipment.
3.  Explain the advantages and disadvantages of the various service styles.
4.  Describe and demonstrate proper table setup, food presentation, delivery and handling complaints.
5.  List and describe the roles of fundamental front-and-back-of-the-house positions.
6.  Demonstrate teamwork abilities, such as cooperating with peers, handling group dynamics, and assessing performance of yourself and others.
7.  Describe and demonstrate strategies to properly control operational costs.
8.  Describe and demonstrate appropriate receiving and storage procedures.
9.  Identify the methods used and demonstrate the ability to apply proper sanitation and HACCP procedures.
10.  Discriminate between ethical and non-ethical behaviors within a foodservice organization.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Coordinated Dietetics

      Didactic Dietetics

      Dietetics/NutrFitness & Hlth

      Nutrition & Dietetics

      Family & Consumer Science Educ

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Corequisites: 

HTM 29102


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  HTM 19100 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  NUTR 12500 Minimum Grade of C-) and (Undergraduate level  NUTR 20200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  FN 20500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  NUTR 20500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  FN 30300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  NUTR 30300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  FN 31500 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  NUTR 31500 Minimum Grade of D-)


