EDCI 53000 - English Language Development

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Focuses on theoretical and practical knowledge for teachers about how second languages are learned, and on the educational and philosophical basis for second language teaching and learning. Links English language development to teaching and learning strategies and is designed for undergraduate and graduate students in education and practicing teachers. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated up to 1 times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop increased understanding of the English language development process by English language learners (ELLSs).
2.  Describe the importance of the changing demographics in the U.S. and Indiana as they relate to ELLs.
3.  Explore the literacy development of ELLs in broader sociocultural contexts.
4.  Describe the importance of explicit teaching and the oral and written language development for ELLs.
5.  Develop understanding of the nature and role of culture in language development and academic achievement, considering the development of literacy and biliteracy by ELLS.
6.  Explore how individual differences affect English language development.
7.  Gain experience in identifying the learning challenges of ELLs and assessing ELLs' learning in P-12 classrooms.
8.  Collaborate with colleagues in activities and assignments and in planning to build partnerships with ELLs' families.
9.  Develop understanding of their roles as ELL teachers and professionals in advocating on behalf of ELLs.
10.  Discuss the role of the teacher in the English language development of ELLs.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


