CGT 21100 - Raster Imaging For Computer Graphics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Digital images are produced using a variety of computer technologies. Advanced color theory, surface rendering, and light control are emphasized in relation to technical illustration, hardware characteristics, and software capabilities.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      IUPUI

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend

      Vincennes


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate understanding of the primary attributes and differences between vector and raster graphics and their application to various communicative products and tasks.
2.  Demonstrate understanding of analog and digital data forms and the conversion processes relating to digital imaging.
3.  Appropriately use common imaging application features such as layers, channels, paths, filters, color adjustment and correction tools, histograms, color mode tools, and calibration tools.  
4.  Demonstrate understanding of input, manipulation, and output technologies related to raster graphics.
5.  Demonstrate understanding of color theory, color models, color systems, and the physiological and psychological effects of color in raster imaging.
6.  Demonstrate understanding of miscellaneous raster graphics issues such as file formats, compression technologies, vector to raster conversion methods and the legal implications of copyrights, trademarks, licenses, and releases. 
7.  Demonstrate skill and proficiency in creating professional raster graphics for all types of output including: textures for use in 3D environments, photographic reproduction, digital illustration, web delivery, CD-ROM multimedia, and self-promotion




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Graphics Tech-BS


Prerequisites: 

 


