OLS 58900 - Leadership And Ethics

Credit Hours: 3.00. An examination of ethical, legal and policy issues facing business and technology leaders. Topics include ethical decision making, corporate social responsibility, codes of ethics, public policies and government regulations, international business practices, technology innovation, risk management in a global environment, and specific areas of law- employment, health and safety, environment, contract, warranties and liabilities, intellectual property, technology law, and international laws and regulations. Graduate student standing or senior status with consent of instructor. Graduate students without an OLS background may be required to take some leveling course. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Technology Ldrshp & Innovatn 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe the common philosophical approaches to ethics, and analyze his/her own ethics approach.  Understand the aspects of decision making that can lead to unethical results.
2. Synthesize and analyze business/technical ethics problems and create appropriate ethical solutions.
3. Research and critically analyze the ethical components of an issue or aspect of business or technology, applying the case study method or other structured analysis.
4. Write a substantial research paper analyzing an ethical issue in business/technology leadership, using appropriate citation style, grammar, academic tone, and research sources.
5. Identify the differences among law, policy and ethics, and analyze the interplay among the three.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Degrees:      

      Master of Science


