BIOL 44215 - Multidisciplinary Design Of Systems And Devices For Physiology Measurements

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This physiology laboratory course will provide an opportunity for undergraduates from the College of Science (Department of Biology) to collaborate with students in other colleges (Agriculture, Education, Engineering, Health and Human Science & Technology) to experience and learn how to operate effectively as part of an interdisciplinary team to address physiological problems in the cardiovascular system, respiratory system and in biological transport. Specifically it will emphasize how these teams can use information, tools, techniques and theories from their disciplines to solve problems that are beyond the scope of any single discipline. In this process, the students will develop an appreciation of both engineering design and the classic hypothesis-driven experimental science as tools to solve complex real-world problems. This course will promote effective communication, systems thinking, laboratory skills, self-management and professional ethics. Students will learn to measure and quantify biological changes, analyze data (including statistical analysis) and interpret its meaning as it applied to the larger physiological question at hand. These skills will be necessary for teams to efficiently function in an interdisciplinary setting both in future courses and more importantly when they enter the workforce.

    0.000 OR     2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Students demonstrate subject-matter competency, including the mastery of biological theories.
2.  Students demonstrate proficiency with professional skills needed by practicing biologists, including experimental design and execution, biological techniques, data collection and documentation, communication of results, and responsible conduct of science.
3.  Students demonstrate the ability to discuss ethical issues in the application of biological sciences, and the impact of science on society.
4.  Students demonstrate skills in critical thinking.  These skills include understanding scientific methods, solving biology-related problems, interpreting and analyzing primary literature in biology, and interpreting data in a meaningful way.
5.  Students demonstrate knowledge of the path leading to specific careers in biology.
6.  Student will demonstrate an in depth knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level.
7.  Students will demonstrate the ability to measure dynamic changes in living organisms, tissues, and cells.





Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


