CGT 36000 - Applications Of Construction Documentation I

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Standards applied to the creation and distribution of documentation within the construction enterprise. Construction documents are created as products of a computer model. Residential modeling is followed by an introduction to light commercial documentation. Topics include a study of blueprint reading and 5D building information modeling (BIM) estimation of material extracted from a model.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer Graphics Technology 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply parametric technologies to architectural engineering and construction (AEC) problems.
2.  Produce renderings and 3D models to increase communication effectiveness.
3.  Determine how loading and framing techniques affect structures.
4.  Identify how codes affect documents.
5.  Determine how new building technologies affect building design and documentation.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Animation And Visual Effects

      Animation

      Construction Management

      Building Information Modeling

      Civil Engineering

      Construction Engineering

      Design & Construct Integration

      Digital Enterprise Systems

      Data Visualization

      Game Development

      Game Development and Design

      Industrial Design Prof Program

      Interior Design Prof Program

      Mechanical & Electr Const Mgmt

      Residential Construction Mgmt

      UX Design

      Visual Effects Compositing

      Virtual Product Integration

      Web Programming & Design


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CGT 16400 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  CGT 26200 Minimum Grade of C- or Undergraduate level  AD 24000 Minimum Grade of C-


