ASEC 48500 - Environmental Communication

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This is an interactive learning course in science and environmental communication with a strong emphasis on development of practical writing and communication skills for students who will become professionals in environment or natural resources. The public primarily obtains environmental information through the media, as such, scientists need to develop the understanding and skills necessary to engage with a range of audiences through the design of effective communication products. This course provides a unique balance of communication theory and skills training in which students develop the confidence to meaningfully communicate environmental issues.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Agric Sciences Educ & Comm 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop a working understanding of the practical fundamentals of communicating complex environmental science to non-technical and technical audiences.
2.  Apply foundational communication theory across a range of writing forms including academic writing form, explanatory short-form, poetry, white papers, and TED talks.
3.  Analyze book-length environmental nonfiction to identify effective writing techniques and strategies.
4.  Investigate strategies used in environmental and nature writing in poetry and fiction to engage audiences and write compelling science stories.
5.  Understand key elements of human nature (information processing, risk perceptions, social norms, etc.) that are contributing to environmental controversy and apply that knowledge in strategic design of communication products.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


