ANSC 55200 - Advanced Meat Science

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The overall goal of the course is to provide students with an advanced understanding of meat science and technology. In order to complete this goal, students will participate in activities including classroom lecture, group discussion, critical reading of literature, written assignments and exams, and/or student projects.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Agriculture 

Department: Animal Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate the conceptual framework of meat science and technology by understanding the biology, biochemistry and chemistry postmortem muscle.
2.  Synthesize knowledge of the biology, biochemistry and chemistry of muscle (meat) and how it functions to influence meat quality attributes.
3.  Classify intrinisc/extrinsic factors affecting meat quality characteristics.
4.  Describe strategic factors to solve meat quality related issues or systems that can be applied to improve meat quality attributes.
5.  Analyze the composition and chemistry of meat and muscle protein and its functional health benefits to the human consumption.
6.  Describe current research in the field of meat science and technology.
7.  Demonstrate learned and researched informatin with peers, both in writing and as a presentation.
8.  Develop skills to read and evaluate research papers, orally present current research and participate in discussion of the result.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-ANSC 55200 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
ANSC
30100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
and
Rule: 1.: ANSC 30100 or 35100  for a total of 1 conditions
)

ANSC
30100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.

ANSC
35100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
End of rule 1.



