CPB 85203 - Veterinary Parasitology

Credit Hours: 3.50.  This course will provide an introduction to parasites of animal health importance. Specifically, this course covers the important helminth, protozoal and arthropod diseases of animals with emphasis placed on the pathogenesis, epidemiology, clinical features, diagnosis, control and zoonotic implications. This course will also cover the principles and practice of laboratory tests for detection of parasitic infections and identification of important parasites.

    0.000 OR     3.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Comparative Pathobiology 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Master the medical terminology for parasites, by using the language of medicine, pathology and parasitology in both written and oral forms.
2.  Understand general aspects of veterinary parasitology including life cycles, pathogenesis, diagnostic methods, and anthelmintic drugs.
3.  Explain how important parasites are transmitted and maintained in nature and/or domestic environments.
4.  Identify the types of clinical problems and pathology caused by the various parasites and be able to explain the basic pathogenesis of these changes for particular parasites.  Correlate clinical and gross pathologic findings due to these parasites.
5.  Predict the clinical presentation if given the pathologic lesions for certain parasites and identify the expected pathologic lesions if given the clinical presentation.
6.  Recognize important parasites grossly and/or microscopically, focusing especially on clinical parasitology diagnostics, i.e., recognition of helminth eggs, larvae, cysts, oocysts, etc. in fecal or other samples.
7.  Explain the methods and rationale for treatment and control of parasitic infections.
8.  Understand the zoonotic importance of certain parasites, and how they are dealt with from a veterinary public health standpoint.
9.  Develop diagnostic thinking skills and learning skills.
10.  Recognize the importance of a solid knowledge of parasitology in the practice of veterinary medicine and surgery, and other fields of veterinary medicine.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      Veterinary Medicine


