HSCI 31000 - Imaging In Medicine

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will introduce students to develop essential understandings of all primary medical imaging techniques utilized in hospitals such as Computer tomography, X-ray imaging, MRI, Ultrasound and Nuclear medicine imaging modalities. The course will cover basic scientific principles of each modality and introduce their underlying clinical requirements and applications. In addition, this course introduces the student to human anatomy as seen in the transverse, coronal, and sagittal planes. Anatomy of the brain, thorax, abdomen, and pelvis will be studies using CT and MRI images. Normal anatomy, anatomic variants, and selected pathologies will be discussed in the various body regions. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand (at an elementary level) the physical basis and limitations of diagnostic imaging techniques and correctly distinguish between the following imaging techniques: plain X-rays, CT scans, MRI scans, PET scans and ultrasound.
2.  Differentiate major anatomical regions and identify major anatomical structures in the transverse, coronal, and sagittal plane.
3.  Acquire basic knowledge of the fundamental principles and techniques of all the major imagine modalities including, CT, MRI, Ultrasound and nuclear medicine (PET and SPECT).
4.  Understand basic sectional (transverse, sagittal and coronal) anatomy in medical imaging.



Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  PHYS 17200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  PHYS 22000 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  PHYS 23300 Minimum Grade of D-)


