EDPS 56601 - Clinical Practice Experience II (Student Teaching)

Credit Hours: 1.00 to 6.00. This course is a supervised 16-week teaching experience in special education. Candidates assess, design and deliver lessons, manage students needs and behaviors, develop IEPs, integrate technology to enhance learning outcomes and communication, collaborate with families and colleagues, and analyze the experience of facilitating a classroom and caseload of students.

    1.000 TO     6.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Full-Time Privileges, Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Create lesson plans that apply research-supported strategies for providing specially designed written language including strategies for providing explicit and systematic instruction and strategies for using technology to support various aspects of the writing process and include instructional and assistive strategies to teach students to monitor for errors in their written language in order to produce legible documents.
2.  Create lesson plans that apply research-supported strategies for providing specially designed mathematics instruction, including strategies for providing explicit and systematic instruction and strategies for using technology to engage students in solving authentic, real-world problems.
3.  Create lesson plans that apply research-supported strategies for providing specially designed science and social studies instruction, including strategies for providing explicit and systematic instruction, strategies for using technology to support students' learning, and strategies for incorporating inquiry-based instruction.
4.  Create and implement lesson plans that include essential components of effective reading instruction, including explicit explanation, teacher modeling, guided practice, and independent practice.
5.  Create and implement lesson plans that incorporate instructional practices, approaches, and methods for eliciting students' engagement in and motivation for reading.
6.  Evaluate SBRR-based, evidence-based, and developmentally appropriate assessment, instruction, intervention, extension, and ongoing progress monitoring in the phonemic awareness, phonics, fluency, vocabulary and academic language, comprehension and analysis of informational, persuasive, and literary texts, including response to literature.
7.  Apply principles of universal design for learning (UDL) and adaptive and assistive technologies.
8.  Conduct functional behavioral assessments and use the results to develop and implement behavioral support plans for students with mild/intense exceptional needs coordinating the implementation among stakeholders and identify strategies and procedures for crisis prevention and intervention to ensure the safety of all.
9.  Apply strategies, Council for Exceptional Children (CEC) Code of Ethics, federal and state laws, and other standards of the profession for using digital tools and resources to communicate and collaborate with students with mild/intense exceptional needs and their families, general education teachers, related services providers, other school staff members, representatives of community agencies, and other stakeholders to help students achieve desired learning outcomes, including students from diverse cultural, linguistic, and socioeconomic backgrounds and students who are chronically or terminally ill.
10.  Supervise and communicate with paraeducators, volunteers, and tutors.
11.  Analyze self-assessment activities to address one's own strengths and weaknesses, to become aware of one's own cultural biases and differences and dispositions toward students with intense exceptional needs and their families, to improve instruction, and to determine personal goals for professional growth.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

      Educ Studies-MS Ed

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate

Must be enrolled in one of the following Concentrations:      

      Special Education


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  EDPS 56010 Minimum Grade of D-


