HSCI 33300 - Introduction To Immunology

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Introduction to Immunology will meet twice weekly and provide an overview of this evolving field of science with an emphasis on the clinical implications and application of learned knowledge. The immunologic mechanisms associated with the normal and abnormal immune response will be discussed and students will put this knowledge into practice by directing their own case study. In addition, a number of common clinical concerns with respect to immunity will be reviewed. Furthermore, we will explore the critical role our knowledge of this branch of science plays in patient diagnosis, treatment and care both now and in the future. Typically offered Spring.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Have solid understanding of the science of Immunology and the Immune Response.
2.  Have an appreciation for the complexity of the immune system, its cellular components, its regulation and implications of its dysfunction. 
3.  Have a clearer understanding of the clinical applications and implications of the immune response.
4.  Have enhanced knowledge of the course material.
5.  Have the ability to transfer the written word into practical application of its principles.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Health Sci-Medt and Rad-BS

      Health Sciences-BS

      Health Sci-Environ Health-BS


Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 20400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30200 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  BIOL 22100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently] or Undergraduate level  BIOL 43800 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently])


