EDPS 57701 - Development Of Learners With Mild Intervention Needs

Credit Hours: 3.00. This course will explore the 4 areas of child development and the milestones associated with Cognitive, Social/Emotional, Language and Communication, and Movement and Physical development. This foundation in typical development will allow candidates to better understand atypical development in relation to characteristics and etiologies of mild disabilities. Candidates will investigate the multiple impacts systems have on individuals with mild disabilities and their families.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Describe typical and atypical human development, characteristics and etiologies in order to address the educational needs of individuals with mild disabilities.
2.  Apply knowledge of the effects of medical conditions, physical and health needs, and common medications (e.g., stimulant, antidepressant, antiepileptic) on students with mild exceptional needs.
3.  Analyze the impact of disability on the multiple aspects (education, career, vocation, social relationships, recreation, and adult life) of the life of an individual with mile intervention needs, including the knowledge of the family's role in supporting learning development.
4.  Explain the influence of cultural, linguistic, and socioeconomic factors on the disproportionate identification of individuals with mild intervention needs from diverse groups.
5.  Apply strategies for engaging in reflection and self-assessment activities to address one's own strengths and weaknesses, to become aware of one's own cultural biases and differences and dispositions toward students with mild exceptional needs and their families to improve instruction, and to determine personal goals for professional growth.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


