BMS 23300 - Introduction To Pharmacology For Veterinary Technicians

Credit Hours: 0.50.  This course introduces the concepts and terminology of pharmacology including basic terminology, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics.

    0.500 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Basic Medical Sciences 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain what the different types of drugs names are
2.  Recognize the characteristics of different solid and liquid dosage formulations
3.  Explain the significance of the terminology used in drug references to describe drugs
4.  List and describe the criteria for acceptable extra-label use of drugs
5.  Describe the difference between OTC and prescription drugs
6.  Explain the factors that affect movement of drug molecules throughout the body
7.  Describe the requirements for prescriptions and drug labels
8.  Describe the characteristics of each route of drug administration
9.  Read and write abbreviations commonly used in drug orders accurately.
10.  Explain physiological factors that change the way drugs move through the body
11.  Describe regulations and warnings surrounding dispensing containers
12.  Describe factors that alter the way drugs are absorbed, distributed, metabolized, & excreted
13.  Describe reasons and procedures for handling and storing drugs
14.  Explain the interaction between drugs & receptors & how that produces cellular effects
15.  Describe legal requirements for dispensing and storage of controlled substances
16.  Describe how pharmacokinetics & pharmacodynamics impact every drug treatment
17.  Describe special storage and handling requirements for cytotoxic and hazardous drugs
18.  Describe the issues surrounding and guidelines required for acceptable drug compounding



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Nurse Completion

      Veterinary Technician

      Veterinary Nurse

      Veterinary Technology

      Veterinary Technology (2+2)


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  BMS 23100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  BMS 23200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 22100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 22200 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 22300 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VCS 25100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 20100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 24100 Minimum Grade of D- and Undergraduate level  VM 24300 Minimum Grade of D-


