HSCI 34500 - Introduction To Occupational And Environmental Health Sciences

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Principles of occupational health (industrial hygiene) and environmental health as related to anticipation, recognition, evaluation, and control of hazards in the workplace and the surrounding community. Emphasis is on hazards of chemicals and their role in occupationally and environmentally related diseases. Historical basis and current legislation are discussed. In addition, the principles of epidemiology, toxicology, exposure standards, and respiratory protection are addressed. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Health Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Discuss the historical background of the fields of occupational and environmental health and events leading to the establishment of current related regulations.
2.  Understand the major principles and terminology of toxicology, epidemiology, and environmental exposure assessment as they are applied to environmental and occupational health.
3.  Understand the units of airborne contaminant concentration, and be able to perform basic calculations and conversions involving these concentrations.
4.  Identify classes of environmental contaminants, their major health effects, and typical environments where they are of concern.
5.  Understand the operations of OSHA, NIOSH, EPA, ACGIH, their important interactions with industry, and their principle types of regulations and/or guidelines.
6.  Understand the use of different types of respiratory protective equipment.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 20400 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  BIOL 30200 Minimum Grade of D-) and (Undergraduate level  MA 15300 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 15800 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 15910 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16010 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16100 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  MA 16500 Minimum Grade of D- or  ALEKS Math Assessment 060 or  SAT Mathematics 570 or  ACT Math 24) and (Undergraduate level  CHM 11200 Minimum Grade of D- or Undergraduate level  CHM 11500 Minimum Grade of D-)


