PHRM 86700 - Introduction To The Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience

Credit Hours: 1.00. The Introduction to Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experience (APPE) course was designed to provide students with the tools needed to be successful clerkship students. Students will participate in a variety of activities, including case studies, group work, evaluations and assessment, review of therapeutic topics, and student/preceptor panel interactions. Activities will be supplemented by didactic lecturing for each topic. The activities and lecture topics were selected based on feedback from previous clerkship students, preceptors, and faculty, and are intended to de-mystify the clerkship experience. This course prepares students to enter the clerkship year with the ability to successfully submit required clerkship forms, evaluate preceptors and peers, avoid common clerkship student mistakes, document clinical interventions, review medical charts, and prepare for therapeutic and pharmacokinetic responsibilities. Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Pharmacy 

Department: Dept of Pharm Practice 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain how to register for rotations.
2.  Recall clerkship policies and procedures.
3.  List the forms which should be submitted to the Office of Experiential Learning after each rotation.
4.  Critique preceptors and rotations constructively and assess peer performance on oral and written work.
5.  Apply strategies to maximize the clerkship experience to each assigned rotation.
6.  Cite the rotation portfolio requirements.
7.  List handy drug information resources to use during rotations.
8.  Explain ways to handle "tough situations" during rotations.
9.  Document complete clinical interventions using Clinical Measures software.
10.  Provide pharmacokinetic recommendations using provided equations and tools.
11.  List ways to succeed on non-patient-care rotations.
12.  List ways to prepare for post-graduate training during rotations.
13.   Recall important information from common disease states encountered while on rotation.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Doctor of Pharmacy-DP

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Professional Third Year


Prerequisites: 

 Professional level  PHRM 86400 Minimum Grade of C-


