CSR 22100 - Apparel Design II

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Continued development of apparel design from concept to finished product through the application of flat pattern design, draping, and computer-aided design. Building on the introductory course to create apparel wear design that includes sleeves, collars, blouses/shirts, dresses, pants, and skirts. Introduction to pattern grading manually and through CAD, and marker for apparel production.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Laboratory Preparation, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  List, define, and apply sewn products industry and patternmaking terminology as related to apparel design.
2.  Measure the human figure and industrial model form for the development and drafting of patterns for apparel.
3.  Identify and appropriately make sure of various patternmaking / drafting tools.
4.  Apply principles of flat pattern drafting to the production of patterns for original design apparel items of pants, collars, sleeves, and skirts.
5.  Apply the principles of draping to the production of patterns for original design apparel items of skirt, pants, collars, sleeves, and torso.
6.  Render presentation boards for color story, design inspirations / sketches, target customer profile, item selection of line or collection, fabric trim selection, and technical sketches (flats or production drawings).
7.  Create, render, and continuously add personal designs and inspirations of design to a croquis book.
8.  Create original design garments from conception of design through rendering to drafted patterns to assembled garment.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Apparel Design & Tech


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CSR 22000 Minimum Grade of C


