EDCI 55200 - Generalizable Skills Instruction In Career And Technical Education

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Curriculum, assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation relating to generalizable skills (also known as generic, transferable, or workplace skills) in career and technical education, other content areas, and special education programs; philosophical, historical, social, economic, political, and educational influencing factors; analysis and synthesis of current research and conceptual models; practical applications for programs; instructional strategies; resources and support services, interdisciplinary collaboration approaches; applications for special needs learners; learning styles and characteristics. Typically offered Summer Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Curriculum and Instruction 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and analyze the philosophical, historical, social, economic, political, and educational factors influencing generalizable skills instruction in career and technical education programs.
2.  Locate, analyze, and synthesize contemporary generalizable skills literature and research and its application in career and technical programs.
3.  Identify, analyze, and apply a conceptual model for generalizable skills instruction regarding curriculum, assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation.
4.  Identify generalizable skills curriculum.
5.  Examine and apply methods of generalizable skills curriculum development and revision.
6.  Review and analyze functional, curriculum-based assessment, instruments, strategies, and procedures.
7.  Describe and use procedures for using generalizable skills assessment data/information in individualized educational planning.
8.  Identify the individual learning styles and characteristics of, and apply appropriate instructional approaches for, individual students in career and technical programs.
9.  Identify, locate, select, and evaluate instructional resource materials and support services useful in generalizable skills instruction.
10.  Identify, adapt, and develop methods for teaching generalizable skills in career and technical programs.
11.  Develop and implement interagency collaboration strategies among career and technical education, special education, support/remedial services, and content related (e.g., mathematics, reading) school personnel.
12.  Identify and select appropriate evaluation methods and procedures for determining the adequacy, quality, and effectiveness of generalizable skills instruction and support services in career and technical education programs.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


