NUR 31801 - Psychiatric And Mental Health Nursing

Credit Hours: 5.00.  Focuses on providing nursing care that supports mental health and the care of persons with mental illness while providing a conceptual integration of the nursing process, theories, and research from the biopsychosocial sciences and humanities. Demonstrates the relevance of psychiatric-mental health nursing concepts to all areas of professional practice. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     5.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Clinic, Distance Learning, Lecture, Travel Time 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Examine the effects of myths, stereotypes, stigma, values, beliefs and culture on the practice of psychiatric nursing.
2.   Compare past, current, and projected systems in delivery of evidence based mental health care and its social implications.
3.   Identify legal and ethical implications involved in the practice of psychiatric mental health nursing.
4.   Utilize the nursing process in the phases ofthe therapeutic nurse-client relationship to delineate the complex needs of clients with psychiatric disorders..
5.   Identify the principles of communication and therapeutic relationships in the care of clients with psychiatric disorders.
6.   Determine specific nursing care interventions for acute and serious behavioral health issues that demonstrate developmentally and culturally appropriate strategies.
7.   Utilize the ANA Standards of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing Practice as a basis for safe and competent care.
8.  Incorporate theory, research and evidence from the psychobiological sciences, biological sciences, and humanities into an evidenced based practice approach to psychiatric nursing care.
9.  Utilize client care technologies, information systems, and communication  resources to access, organize and communicate information in a professional manner.
10. Establish therapeutic, collaborative relationships with members of the interdisciplinary treatment team.
11. Demonstrate personal and professional growth and skill development when providing evidence based nursing care to clients with psychiatric disorders.




Prerequisites: 

 (Undergraduate level  BIOL 22100 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL 22000 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  BIOL N2510 Minimum Grade of C) and (Undergraduate level  PSY 35000 Minimum Grade of C or Undergraduate level  PSY B3800 Minimum Grade of C) and Undergraduate level  NUR 22001 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22101 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22201 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 22301 Minimum Grade of C and Undergraduate level  NUR 31901 Minimum Grade of C [may be taken concurrently]


