NUR 63200 - Health Policy: Local To Global

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This online course provides an overview of policy decisions related to the organization, financing, and delivery of health care in the global community. Social, ethical, cultural, economic, and political issues that affect the delivery of health care and nursing services are critically analyzed. International models for development of health policies will be examined. Roles of health-care providers and consumers of health-care services, as well as government and entrepreneurial interest are examined. Typically offered Fall.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Succinctly discuss the progressive involvement of governments in the organizing, financing, and delivery of health care in the local to global community.
2.  Identify the major forces shaping health care policy today as well as its relationship to cultural diversity.
3.  Describe the policy-making process, characteristics of participants, and the political-economic environment of health care both in the United States and internationally.
4.  Examine issues that relate to the basis of current public policy-making and those expected to shape the development of future health policies.
5.  Analyze health policy issues regarding access, cost, and quality of care.
6.  Succinctly discuss implications of health policy for nurses and nursing practice using a policy analysis framework.
7.  Relate micro and macroeconomic issues to health policy and their implications for nursing practice.
8.  Examine critical issues for specialty areas of nursing practice that arise from an analysis of health policy.
9.  Examine the relationship between health policy and ethical decision-making.
10.  Participate in online providers of health and nursing services.


Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice


