NUR 54400 - Advanced Practice Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing Across The Lifespan

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Evidence-based treatment methods including principals of psychopharmacology and psychotherapeutic modalities across the life span are examined, evaluated and implemented in clinical practice. Factors, such as culture, neurobiology, developmental level and gender that impact disease expression, therapeutic approaches and treatment response are explored. Mental health assessment including standardized psychiatric assessment tools, including Mental Status Exam, Mood Disorder Questionnaire, Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), DSM V and ICD is presented. In addition, developmental and functional level, and cultural influences are included. Substance use assessment skills and substance use interventions will be examined including how substance use impacts psychiatric symptom expression and response to treatment. Legal and ethical implications of care will be discussed. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Nursing 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Apply epidemiology, physiology, developmental, informatics, technology, leadership systems, quality improvement, family, community, and health promotion theories and research in the care of children, adolescents, adults, and older adults with psychiatric conditions.
2.  Identify appropriate diagnostic modalities in assessing the mental health care needs of children, adolescents, adults and older adults.
3.  Interpret clinical and diagnostic data to formulate, implement, and evaluate care for clients with psychiatric disorders and their families.
4.  Communicate orally and in writing culturally sensitive plans of care that reflect mutually derived health priorities, goals and interventions for children, adolescents, adults and older adults with psychiatric disorders.
5.  Apply legal and ethical standards of practice in the management of psychiatric and medical problems in children, adolescents, adults, and older adults.
6.  Evaluate theory and research based interventions to assist children, adolescents, adults, and older adults with psychiatric illness, developmental changes, and psychosocial/environmental problems.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Nursing-MS

      Nursing-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-Grad Cert

      Nurs-Collabor-Dr Nurs Practice

      Nursing-CPOSTM


