KOR 10100 - Korean Level I

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is the first half of the Elementary Korean language sequence. It is designed for those who have no prior (or very limited) knowledge of Korean. Lecture will introduce new material and explain conversational patterns considering grammatical, lexical, and pragmatic aspects of Korean. Some class meetings will be conducted entirely in Korean. Emphasis is placed on the fundamentals of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. In addition, students will be exposed to everyday life contexts (e.g., language use, culture, etc.) likely to be encountered in contemporary Korean society. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Assess the meaning of limited vocabulary and some simple questions or statements auditorily and visually in the context of everyday events, such as greetings, introductions, giving directions, expressing needs, and making requests in Korean.
2.  Construct short statements and ask simple questions by combining grammatical and lexical items using spoken Korean in a limited number of content areas, particularly if strongly supported by the situational context.
3.  Identify meanings communicated in written Hangul, a Korean writing system, related to basic language use and immediate needs, such as prices in stores, dates on schedules, and short letters, messages, or memos relating information relevant to various aspects of student life.
4.  Construct simple fixed expressions and limited memorized material by combining grammatical and lexical items in written form using Hangul.
5.  Describe facts and evidence related to Korean history, culture, and daily life through simple authentic texts and materials such as magazines, drama skits, movies, pop lyrics, or traditional grams.



Prerequisites:

KOR 10100 Prerequisites


General Requirements:

KOR
               0
 to 
               1

May not be taken concurrently.


