PHIL 11100 - Introduction To Ethics

Credit Hours: 3.00.  A study of the nature of moral value and obligation. Topics such as the following will be considered: different conceptions of the good life and standards of right conduct; the relation of nonmoral and moral goodness; determinism, free will, and the problem of moral responsibility; the political and social dimensions of ethics; the principles and methods of moral judgment. Readings will be drawn both from contemporary sources and from the works of such philosophers as Plato, Aristotle, Aquinas, Butler, Hume, Kant, and J. S. Mill. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.
CTL:ISH 1051 Ethics

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Individual Study, Lecture, Recitation 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Credit By Exam, Core Transfer Library, Lower Division, S General Education, GTC-Humanistic-Artistic, UC-Humanities 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      Northwest- Westville

      Northwest- Hammond

      West Lafayette

      Anderson

      Columbus

      Indianapolis

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Demonstrate exposure to and knowledge of the views and approaches to specific issues in ethics as presented in the writings of important moral philosophers, including Aristotle, Kant, and Mill.
2. Recognize important ethical concepts and ethical theories, including virtue ethics, deontological ethics, and consequentialist ethics.
3. Develop the ability to present, explain, defend and critically evaluate complex philosophical ideas, theories, and perspectives, in oral and written communication.
4. Develop the ability to locate, interpret, understand and evaluate philosophical arguments encountered in complex philosophical texts within the contexts and traditions that inform those arguments and texts.
5. Develop critical thinking and writing skills. 





