EDPS 21100 - Special Education Law, Policy, And Ethical Guidelines

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides opportunities for analysis and practical application of special education law and policy through discourse and advocacy. It is designed to provide students with a foundational understanding of special education, including the historical context for special education and the laws, policies, and ethical guidelines that have driven current special education legislation. Special education professionals hold multiples roles: teacher, case manager, general education consultant, instructional aid supervisor, research, and administrator to name a few. Moreover, there are numerous responsibilities required to successfully work in each of these roles and in this course we focus on law, policy, and ethical guidelines where they are relevant to special education pre-service teachers and support personnel. Typically offered Fall Spring Summer.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Education 

Department: Educational Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Use observation, academic and personal engagement, and assessment data to develop and understanding of their students as learners at the individual and group level.
2.  Demonstrate a strong knowledge of applicable federal, state, local laws, regulations, and policies pertaining to individuals with exceptionalities and how these laws affect the delivery of services and supports.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to advocate for resources and professional learning conditions to help individuals with exceptionalities meet instructional, behavioral, social, and transition goals and outcomes.
4.  Demonstrate the knowledge to draft sound and ambitiously appropriate individualized education programs.
5.  Demonstrate the ability to engage in professional activities and participate actively in peer and professional learning communities that benefit individuals with exceptionalities and families, colleagues and their own professional growth.
6.  Demonstrate the ability to keep current with research and contemporary practices in multiple way.



