VCS 80130 - Introduction To Population Medicine And Veterinary Ethics

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course will introduce first year veterinary students to the fundamental principles of population medicine. This will include concepts behind population versus individual animal medicine, population animal industries and their management practices, population animal diseases, outbreak investigation, regulatory medicine, and interactions between wild and domestic animals. Following an introduction to population medicine, students will shift to a discussion of veterinary ethics and its application to various animal industries. Students will explore basic concepts in animal use ethics and welfare, ethical and moral reasoning, and critical thinking and problem solving in population medicine. Typically offered Fall Summer.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: Veterinary Medicine 

Department: Veterinary Clinical Sciences 



May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Develop an understanding of the concepts of population medicine and compare and contrast those to individual animal medicine.
2.  Acquire a basic understanding of the production animal industries and management practices employed by those industries.
3.  Attain a familiarity of the major disease challenges common to each of the animal populations presented.
4.  Be able to intelligently approach a disease outbreak investigation and recommend sound basic sampling, management, and treatment options.
5.  Understand and appreciate the role of regulatory medicine in disease control.
6.  Understand and appreciate the wild and domestic animal interactions and challenges.
7.  Review basic concepts in ethics of animal use and animal welfare science.
8.  Illustrate how ethics and moral reasoning may be used to resolve contentious animal issues of relevance to veterinary medicine.
9.  Develop skills in critical thinking and collaborative problem solving relative to population medicine.
10.  Enhance information gathering, assimilation, and communication skills.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Professional

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Veterinary Medicine


