PHIL 57100 - Writing To Learn

Credit Hours: 3.00.  Repeatable twice for a maximum of 9 credits. Writing on a higher academic level can be especially challenging for non-native English-writers. Thus, this course aims to develop students' graduate-level skillsets in philosophical practices in an English language environment to help them gain confidence and become productive members of the philosophical community. Students will learn writing processes that will aid their ability to effectively compose in English, including developing a thesis statement, outlining, drafting, formatting, and editing. As all four chief skillsets in second-language proficiency development work in tandem and enhance each other, the course will rely on writing, reading, speaking, listening, and presenting work for learning and further developing these advanced language skills. Students are also supported in their regular philosophy courses. This course is linked to one or more 500+ level philosophy seminars that students in this course are enrolled in. Reading materials, writing activities, and projects for the course are designed to complement tasks and projects required in the linked philosophy seminar. Permission of department required.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: Philosophy 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Repeatable for Additional Credit: Yes - May be repeated an unlimited number of times for a maximum of 9 credits


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Construct clear and well-organized expositions of philosophical discourses.
2.  Identify cases of plagiarism in writing in order to avoid plagiarism when summarizing the ideas of others.
3.  Apply writing strategies to manage the writing process, including outlining, drafting, and revising.
4.  Apply genre and rhetorical features of philosophical discourse to writing including: Rhetorical practices and linguistic devices used to paraphrase and summarize information, genre conventions for citing sources and  organizational devices used to create coherence and cohesion in essays.
5.  Present and discuss ideas and research work compellingly, thoughtfully, and respectfully.
6.  Improve speaking skills, including circumlocution, pronunciation, attention to body language, affect, and more, in classroom discussions and formal presentations.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  PHIL 56100 Minimum Grade of D- [may be taken concurrently]


