AMST 25000 - An Introduction To American Protest Movements: What Are They? What Can They Do? How Can We Make One?

Credit Hours: 3.00.  In this course, we will study the reasons people in the United States have historically decided to create social movements, tactics and strategies they use to make and sustain those movements, obstacles to their success, and ways of judging their victories. The course will draw on scholarship on social movements from various fields, especially the field of American Studies. Because social movements are created by ordinary people, we will use a variety of sources they leave behind: speeches, testimonials, pamphlets, historical accounts, autobiographies, manifestos. We will also explore scholarship on social movements to try to understand how best to record and analyze the work social movements do. The course seeks to provide students an understanding of the role of protest movements in American history. Permission of instructor required.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Interdis Studies 


Course Attributes: Lower Division, GTC-Humanistic-Artistic, UC-Humanities 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate knowledge across a range of chronological, cultural and geographic areas.
2.  Show an understanding the ways protest movements shape American culture.
3.  Describe how different aspects or types of human endeavor and experience may be connected.
4.  Identify the roots of contemporary issues and challenges, with attention to social values and the role of identity in the human experience.
5.  Apply a critical perspective to evaluating arguments, including the quality of sources, the validity of the interpretations of those sources, and the soundness of the argument's use of evidence to support that interpretation.
6.  Formulate and support an argument in a well-focused, logically organized piece of writing.




