CNIT 58000 - Advanced Topics In Information Technology Project Management

Credit Hours: 3.00.  The course explores and applies the advanced concepts, skills, knowledge, techniques, and tools required to successfully initiate, plan, manage, execute, control, and report on information technology projects. Special emphasis is placed on applying the PM BOK in a real life business case study as well as researching and learning concepts, techniques, and processes experienced project and program managers employ to successfully plan and manage projects. This course enables the student to learn project management through the application of project approaches in a team based setting. Through the application of project methodologies, tools and templates, the student learns the project life-cycle approach as demonstrated through actual and simulated project situations. Permission of Department required.


    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Explain and apply the processes and Weekly Assignments, Live, and artifacts prescribed by the PMBOK.
2.  Assess the objectives of a project management office and how organizations implement them based on their organizational structure and culture.
3.  Research and analyze methodologies, tools, and techniques used by today's experienced IT project managers.
4.  Research and analyze current business and technology conditions that affect project managers of today.
5.  Describe and evaluate the competencies that are required to be an effective project manager.
6.  Research innovative methods and techniques for performing IT project management.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


