MSE 58900 - Archaeology And Materials

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course provides instruction in the methods and theories used by archaeologists and materials scientists to study ancient and historic technology. The course will focus on the analysis and interpretation of archaeological artifacts and provide opportunities for hands-on learning. Permission of department required. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Materials Engr 

Department: Materials Engineering 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Make a reasoned argument about historical development of anthropological and archaeological approaches to the study of technology, and the role of materials science in archaeological research.
2.  Demonstrate a nuanced understanding of, and appreciation for, ancient and contemporary technologies and the materials properties which led to their fabrication and use in specific ways.
3.  Demonstrate the ability to write a research proposal, design educational material, or design and conduct a research experiment that incorporates materials science in the investigation of past (ancient, historic, or potentially more recent) technology.
4.  Understand the relationship between Culture and Technology and communicate concepts about the impact of this relationship on the environment and issues of sustainability.
5.  Understand critical questions about a set of journal articles focused on specific topics and lead the class in a systematic discussion of the articles and the questions they raise.
6.  Select and discuss written information from journal articles, books, the class textbooks, and class lectures to produce a comprehensive picture of specific anthropology, archaeology, and materials science concepts and approaches to the study of materials and culture.
7.  Compare and contrast the information that different materials characterization techniques can provide about the way historical artifacts were made and used, including the materials from which they are constructed.



Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


