BIOL 58705 - Animal Communication

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course will be a broad-scaled analysis of animal communication. Topics will include the physics of sound- and light-signal production, propagation and reception of signals, the use of communication as a means of information transfer, and the evolution of signaling systems. Mathematical principles are covered (e.g. in the evolution of signals), so some background in mathematics (e.g. calculus or algebra and introductory physics) is helpful.

    3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Lecture 


Offered By: College of Science 

Department: Biological Sciences 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Understand ways in which organisms interact ecologically with each other and their environment.
2.  Understand how evolutionary forces influence organisms to produce adaptations.
3.  Acquire knowledge of the ways in which animals communicate with each other.
4.  Exhibit proficiency in population and community ecology, animal behavior, and evolutionary mechanisms.
5.  Familiar with taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among organisms.
6.  Learn to efficiently communicate scientific information or results from biological investigations using both oral and written methods.
7.  Use and understand the scientific method, including how to generate hypotheses and predictions, develop an experimental design, collect data, statistically analyze data, and interpret results.
8.  Demonstrate an in dept knowledge of nervous system function at the systems, cellular and molecular level.




Restrictions:

May not be enrolled as the following Classifications:      

      Sophomore: 45 - 59 hours

      Sophomore: 30 - 44 hours

      Freshman: 0 - 14 hours

      Freshman: 15 - 29 hours


Prerequisites:

GR-BIOL 58705 Requisites


General Requirements:

 ( 

Student Attribute: 
GR

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
11000


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
Course or Test: 
BIOL
12100


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
)



