CNIT 44600 - Advanced Wireless Networks

Credit Hours: 3.00.  This course is an advanced course in wireless networking. Building on knowledge gained from the introductory wireless local area network course, this course addresses wireless network design and implementation on a large scale. Topics include mesh networking, broadband wireless access, backhauling, WiMAX and cellular systems. The laboratory portion of the course includes implementing and simulating these technologies in an outdoor setting.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Laboratory, Lecture 


Offered By: Polytechnic Institute 

Department: Computer and Information Tech 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette

      Columbus

      Kokomo

      Lafayette

      New Albany

      Richmond

      South Bend


Learning Outcomes: 
1. Understand current WLAN, WMAN and WWAN design and implementation strategies.
2. Understand the increasing roles that WLANs, WMANs, WWANs are playing to increase mobility and augment wire line high throughout technologies.
3. Design and configure Metropolitan and Wide Area scaled wireless networks based on a given business scenario or problem.
4. Understand wireless data and telecommunications terminology and jargon.
5. Understand the basic underpinnings of important wireless technologies and wireless internet provider management issues.
6. Conduct successful outdoor site surveys with different equipment and standards.
7. Be able to discuss wireless data and telecommunication issues with professionals in an informed and intelligent manner.
8. Formulate a checklist regarding existing and/or new wireless data/telecommunication systems and infrastructure.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Programs:      

      Comp Info Tech-BS


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  CNIT 34600 Minimum Grade of C-


