ENGR 49400 - Women In Engineering Senior Seminar:  Gender In The Workplace

Credit Hours: 1.00.  This course provides junior and senior engineering students an opportunity to maximize their earning potential, promotion opportunities, and retention within engineering or related fields. Enrolled students will 1) become aware of and discuss solutions for internal and external barriers which can prevent women from reaching their greatest potential in the workforce; 2) enhance professional development and transition skills required to move successfully from an academic to professional environment; and 3) acquire skills and knowledge to serve as engineering role models/ambassadors for diverse populations. The content and activities of the course may be of particular interest to women. Permission by instructor required. Typically offered Spring.

    1.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Engineering 

Department: College of Engineering Admin 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and develop solutions to internal and external barriers which prevent attainment of career trajectory.
2.  Define and apply professional and transition skills to move from academic to professional environment in order to improve the workforce experience and promotion opportunities.
3.  Recognize and engage in engineering stewardship opportunities to build general public knowledge about the field of engineering.
4.  Utilize coaching skills developed in class to assist themselves and others in making decisions/taking action.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Colleges:      

      College of Engineering

Must be enrolled in one of the following Classifications:      

      Senior 105+ hours

      Senior 90 - 104 hours

      Junior: 60 - 74 hours

      Junior: 75 - 89 hours


