HTM 49112 - Management And Service Of Beverage Alcohol

Credit Hours: 2.00.  This course introduces the principles and practices associated with the production of beverage alcohol in the hospitality industry.  Lectures and structured tastings will guide students in identifying and describing the unique characteristics of fermented beverages commonly found in the hospitality industry. Course fee. Students will be tasting alcohol as part of this course, they need to be at least 21 years of age to do so legally. Department permission required.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Experiential, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: School of Hosp & Tourism Mgmt 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      PU Fort Wayne

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Identify and describe the categories of beverage alcohols including spirits, wine, beer, and ale including the factors involved in the fermentation and distillation of beverage alcohols.  
2.  Describe and explain the major global wine producing regions and production practices, product varieties, characteristic flavors, service styles, and appropriate food pairings associated with wine.  
3.  Identify and describe the agricultural principles associated with viticulture, such as geography, climate, harvesting, and dominant grape varietals, and their impact on wine production.  
4.  Describe and explain regional differences in the labeling of wine.  
5.  Identify and describe the specific factors unique to wine, through structured tastings. 
6.  Describe and explain the production methods, styles and characteristics associated with the production of beers, ciders, ales, and distilled beverage alcohols.  
7.  Identify and describe the specific factors unique to beer, ciders and ales, through structured tastings.
8.  Identify and describe the specific factors unique to distilled beverage alcohols, through structured tastings.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Majors:      

      Hospitality & Tourism Mgmt


Prerequisites: 

 Undergraduate level  HTM 49111 Minimum Grade of C- [may be taken concurrently]


