HK 54300 - Athletic Training Practicum III

Credit Hours: 2.00.  Fieldwork experiences designed to integrate acquired knowledge and skills through live or scenario based applications. Students will gain clinical experiences under the direct supervision of an athletic training preceptor either on or off campus. Emphasis will be placed on professional and ethical conduct, patient centered care, interprofessional collaborative practice, evidence-based practice, quality improvement, and health care informatics. Permission of department required. Typically offered Summer.

    2.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Experiential 


Offered By: College of Health & Human Sci 

Department: Dept of Health & Kinesiology 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Demonstrate active listening skills and a positive attitude when receiving constructive feedback on performance.
2.  Identify own strengths and weaknesses in professional behavior.
3.  Modify behavior based on self-evaluation and feedback from others.
4.  Demonstrate active listening, neutral body language, and sensitivity to difference in age, gender, and culture.
5.  Demonstrate flexibility and timely completion of tasks.
6.  Write legibly, using correct grammar, terminology, and spelling.
7.  Arrive punctually and dresses appropriately for clinic activities.
8.  Practice in a safe manner that minimizes risk to patient, self, and others.
9.  Demonstrate professional behavior at all times.
10.  Practice in a manner consistent with established legal and professional standards and ethical guidelines.
11.  Communicate in ways that are congruent with situational needs.
12.  Adapt delivery of athletic training services with consideration for patients’ differences, values, preferences, and needs.
13.  Participate in self-assessment to improve clinical and professional performance.
14.  Apply current knowledge, theory, clinical judgement, and the patient’s values and perspective in patient management.
15.  Demonstrate the patient’s need for further examination or consultation by an athletic trainer or referral to another health care professional.
16.  Perform an athletic training examination using evidence-based tests and measures.
17.  Evaluate data from the patient examination to make clinical judgements.
18.  Determine a diagnosis and prognosis that guides future patient management
19.  Establish an athletic training plan of care that is safe, effective, patient-centered, and evidence-based.
20.  Perform an athletic training intervention in a competent manner.
21.  Educate others using relevant and effective teaching methods.
22.  Produce quality documentation in a timely manner to support the delivery of athletic training services.
23.  Collect and analyzes data from selected outcome measures in a manner that supports accurate analysis of individual and patient group outcomes.
24.  Participate in the financial management of athletic training consistent with regulatory, legal, and facility guidelines.
25.  Fit and apply prophylactic protective equipment to a patient, such as shoulder pads, helmet, custom orthoplast splints, etc in accordance with established manufacturers’ guidelines to prevent injury.
26.  Fit and apply standard protective equipment to a patient, such as crutches, cane, pneumatic walking boot, ankle braces, etc in accordance with established manufacturers’ guidelines following an injury.
27.  Apply upper and lower extremity taping and wrapping procedures consistent with biomechanical principles and appropriate for prophylactic treatment or in accordance with stage of healing.
28.  Demonstrate the ability to evaluate injuries and conditions of the upper quarter and spine, including the shoulder, elbow and forearm, wrist and fingers, cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, and pelvis.
29.  Demonstrate the ability to perform a comprehensive clinical examination of common illnesses and conditions and provides the appropriate referral as indicated.
30.  Produce documentation of the patient encounter consistent with contemporary athletic training practice using appropriate terminology and complying with all applicable regulatory standards.



Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


Prerequisites: 

 Graduate level  HK 54200 Minimum Grade of P


