ENE 55400 - Globalization And Engineering

Credit Hours: 3.00. The focus is on the multifaceted dynamics of globalization, and its impact on engineering practice and the lives and education of engineers. The course emphasizes engineering and globalization from the perspectives of the emerging Asian economies and Europe, as well as the United States. This course is designed for practicing engineers and engineering educators.  It is taught within a learner-centric, highly interactive, collaborative learning environment in which students are expected to learn from the experiences and thinking of each other, as well as from the instructor, and other course resources. The course places emphasis on reading, writing, web-based research, and discussion. Students are recommended (but not required) to have a minimum of two years work experience as a practicing engineer and strong communication skills (self-assessed). Permission of instructor is required. Typically offered Fall.

    0.000 OR     3.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: School of Engineering Educ 

Department: Engineering Education 


Course Attributes: Upper Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette Continuing Ed

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Have increased global awareness.
2.  Have knowledge of the dynamics of globalization as an economic and social process including contrasting theories and interpretations of events.
3.  Have knowledge of how globalization is studied and characterized by economists, political scientists, and sociologists.
4.  Able to interpret studies and research on globalization.
5.  Understand the nature and roles of engineering education and life-long learning within the globalization dynamic.
6.  Understand the innovation process within a global enterprise including contrasting theories and the ability to analyze specific cases.
7.  Able to lead and innovate within a rapidly globalizing profession.
8.  Know the engineering profession, engineering education, and globalization from the perspectives of countries beyond the United States, particularly perspectives from Europe and the emerging economies of Asia.




Restrictions:

Must be enrolled in one of the following Levels:      

      Graduate


