KOR 20100 - Korean Level III

Credit Hours: 4.00.  This course is the first half of the intermediate Korean language sequence. The main purpose of this course is to expand on the study of the Korean language and culture, and develop an Intermediate Low proficiency level. Some class meetings are conducted entirely in Korean. Students practice reading and listening comprehension, grammar, vocabulary building, and conversations that require a variety of styles, pragmatic considerations, and knowledge of Korean cultural topics. Skills for simple narration and written report will be enhanced. Students rely on authentic materials for introduction of Korean culture and authentic language usage. Typically offered Fall Spring.

    0.000 OR     4.000 Credit hours


Syllabus Available

Levels: Graduate, Professional, Undergraduate 

Schedule Types: Distance Learning, Lecture 


Offered By: College of Liberal Arts 

Department: School of Languages & Cultures 


Course Attributes: Dept Credit, Lower Division 


May be offered at any of the following campuses:      

      West Lafayette


Learning Outcomes: 
1.  Assess sentence-length utterances auditorily and visually that consist of a sufficient amount of vocabulary and expressions to communicate in a variety of situations covered in the course.
2.  Apply basic components of Korean grammatical structures to construct standard Korean sentences to express creative ideas and to make comparisons.
3.  Solve communicative problems related to a variety of uncomplicated social situations by asking and answering questions.
4.  Compose written language in Korean to meet practical writing needs, such as short personal letters and journals.
5.  Describe facts and evidence related to Korean history, culture, and daily life through simple authentic texts and materials such as magazines, drama skits, movies, K-pop lyrics, or traditional grams.



Prerequisites:

KOR 20100 Prerequisites


General Requirements:

 ( 
Course or Test: 
KOR
10200


Minimum Grade of 
D-

May not be taken concurrently.
 )or( 
KOR
              18
 to 
              19

May not be taken concurrently.
)



